Help students draw some conclusions from looking at and thinking about their
facts and findings. For example, shaded areas
are
protected from the sun and so the surface is not as hot as blacktop or pavement that is dark in color and fully exposed to the sunlight. Go over what a hypothesis is, how you can devise a test or experiment to see if your hypothesis is true, and basic rules about being accurate about your tests, observations, and recording of findings. Because of this we are able to study the Sun in great detail using an array of instrumentation both in and on the . With dedicated solar telescopes we are able to identify individual features on the and in the . The average star, however, is many light years away, the closest being Proxima Centauri at approximately 4.5 light years distance. The great distances involved in stellar astronomy means that normal telescopes are not particularly useful in studying the average star. Instead special observational techniques are required in order to obtain some information about any particular star. It occupies more than one million times as much space as the Earth, and its mass is 750 times that of all the solar system's planets, moons, and other bodies put together. The Sun is an ordinary star, but it is the one that
is nearest to us, that is why the sun is so bright. There are 9 planets that orbit around the sun; the inner planets include Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, while Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are the outer planets, leaving Pluto as the smallest outermost planet. A common characteristic of the inner planets is that they have a rocky surface. Then in 1543,
Nicolaus Copernicus proposed the idea that the planets and the Earth orbited around the Sun. However, Copernicus' new theory was no better at predicting the positions of the planets in the sky than the older, Earth-centered theory. There was still something missing..... Half a century later, sought to refine the Copernican system and truly understand how the planets move around the Sun. He studied observations of Mars recorded by his mentor, Tycho Brahe. Rather than trying to force the data to support a pre-determined view of the Universe, Kepler used Tycho's observations to guide the creation of his theories. This was a radical departure from the thought processes of his era, and it is a signal of the beginning of our modern scientific age.Johannes Kepler Transition Region and Coronal Explorer The Ulysses Mission is the first spacecraft to explore interplanetary space at high solar latitudes. Ulysses is a joint endeavor of the European Space Agency (ESA) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the USA. The spacecraft and spacecraft operations team are provided by ESA, the launch of the spacecraft, radio tracking, and
data management operations are provided by NASA. Scientific
experiments are provided by investigation teams both in Europe and the USA. All the stars in the sky which we can see are similar to the Sunthey are massive
thermonuclear explosions just like a hydrogen bomb. Our Sun is about half way through its lifetime
but still has enough nuclear fuel to keep the explosion going for about another thousand million years! In fact our
Sun is a rather boringly average star..there are lots much bigger (or smaller) and lots much hotter (or cooler) than the Sun. In addition to planets, the Solar System also consists of moons, comets, asteroids, minor planets, and dust and gas. Everything in the Solar System orbits or revolves around the Sun. The Sun contains around 98% of all the
material in the Solar System. The larger an object is, the more gravity it has. Because the Sun is so large, its powerful gravity attracts all the other objects in the Solar System towards
it. satellite, stars, NASA, astronomy, sun, earth,
moon, mars, mercury, Saturn, Columbia,
alien, solar system, planets, galaxy satellite, stars, NASA, astronomy, sun, earth, moon, mars, mercury, Saturn, Columbia, alien, solar system, planets, galaxy Related Domains- Ranked #12970 among .de websites - Ranked #5990 among .za websites - Ranked
#2721 among .nl websites - Ranked #21185 among .dk websites - Ranked #9268 among .cl websites - Ranked #8591 among .it websites - Ranked #1882 among .gr websites - Ranked #3453 among .be websites - Ranked #16373 among .in websites - Ranked #2346 among .il websites - Ranked #3194 among .nz websites - Ranked #11765 among .hu websites space.de    edit The Solar System
Portal The consists of the and the other bound to it: the eight , their 165 known , five currently
identified (including ) and their four known moons, and billions of . This last category includes , objects, , and . In broad terms, the charted regions of
the Solar System consist of the Sun, four inner planets, an composed of small rocky bodies, four outer
planets, and a second belt, called the , composed of icy objects. The
"rose-coloured region"! How little astronomers will ever know of its real nature, even though hundreds of eclipses furnish them with the indisputable evidence of its
presence. The sun is so thickly surrounded by a shell of
this "red matter" that it is useless for them to speculate with only the
help
of their physical instruments, upon the nature of that which they can never see or detect with mortal eye behind that brilliant, radiant zone of
matter.Surya ...Yogi Aristotle proposed the Sun was
made
of a Fire essence, and the stars and planets were made from a 5th essence called Aether. From what I can
tell, it wasn't until Giordano Bruno in 1583
that stars were equated as suns in their own right, with orbiting planets a la Copernicus.
William Herschel in the early 1800's assumed that stars were equally bright as the Sun in order to estimate the size of the universe. It wasn't
really until Bessel used parallax to determine their true distances in 1838, and in 1814-1829 Fraunhofer, Foucault, Lockyer and others used the newly invented 'stellar spectroscope' to show that the Sun and stars are made of a glowing gas, that the actual nature of stare was nailed down. Cups of tea which are bigger than normal don't go cold as fast as normal cups of tea. A gallon cup of tea is twice as wide as a pint of tea, has eight times as much tea (volume) as a pint, but has only four times as much surface area. (see surface area and volume explanation ). Therefore it cools down twice as slowly. Extending this to an extreme example of starshine coming off the sun, it has insulation provided by geometry which is like a
super-Thermos flask! Another thing about the sun is that it can be thought about as
a giant planet with liquid oceans of fire. Ask an Astronomer for KIDS! - How do the planets stay in orbit
around the sun? How do the planets stay in orbit around the sun? The solar system was formed from a rotating cloud of gas and dust which spun around a newly forming star, our
sun, at its center. The planets all formed
from this spinning disk-shaped cloud, and continued this rotating course around the sun after they were formed. The gravity of the sun keeps the planets in their orbits. The stay in their orbits
because there is no other force in the solar system which can stop them.