master of ceremonies
National
Baseball Hall of Fame He graduated from the in 1969, where he won the
1968 College World Series while playing for USC's prestigious
baseball program. While at USC, he
played with 14 future Major Leaguers, including Hall of Famer and slugger . University of Southern California Tom Seaver Dave Kingman [] edit ESPN From an early age, Rasmussen was exposed to the broadcasting business through his father, Bill Rasmussen, who had worked for radio stations
and was a communications director for the ice hockey team. In 1979, Scott and Bill Rasmussen founded , the cable sports network. Their stake in ESPN was bought out by in 1984. He also broke the
advertising barrier to cable television by signing Anheuser Busch to the largest cable TV advertising contract ever in 1979. Rasmussen was included in "Forty for the Ages," 's 1994 list of sports figures who significantly altered and elevated the world of sport in the second half of the 20th
century.Sports Illustrated ESPN Plus ESPN+ logo. (ESPN m s) is an channel based in broadcasting for the region (////). Its programming is mostly , and related. It also broadcasts some shows about
leagues of different sports from Argentina.ESPN + ESPN Argentina R o
de la Plata Argentina Uruguay Paraguay Bolivia Chile football tennis rugby union
It serves as a second outlet for 's mainstream sports coverage. Founded by Scott and Bill Rasmussen as the first cable television network devoted solely to sports, ESPN aired its first program on , . In , Capital Cities Communications purchased and in separate deals, then sold the properties to in . In , ABC Sports, which had existed for 45 years, was integrated into , so
now all ABC sports related programming appears as "ESPN on
ABC".SportsCenter
September
7 1979 1985 ABC ESPN The Walt Disney Company 1996 2006 ESPN On July 7, 2008, it was announced that Patrick would join as a co-host of the inaugural season of with former co-anchor
every
Sunday night beginning in September. Patrick and Olbermann host a
series of
highlights
on the show and
a segment called "The Little Big Show" with the day's top NFL plays. Patrick served as the Super Bowl XLIII trophy presenter after the Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the Arizona
Cardinals.
As mentioned above, Bestwick and Wallace were moved to the pit studio from other locations. Dale Jarrett is moving into the booth alongside of and . is taking Bestwick's spot on pit road. Dr. Jerry Punch Andy Petree Shannon Spake , former anchor, became the new host of when it
returned on , 2008. Bestwick and will also take turns on
some editions. Nicole Manske SPEED Channel NASCAR Now February 4 Ryan Burr 10, 2005) -- ESPN personality Chris Berman coined the phrase, "Back-back-back-back, gone!" Stuart Scott defined "Boo-yah!" and Dick Vitale proclaimed, "It's awesome, baby!" Now, ESPN sports jargon is making the jump to print media, according to a new Missouri School of Journalism study. Scott Reinardy, a journalism doctoral candidate, and , an associate professor, found that newspaper sports
journalists,
specifically
writers and sports desk personnel, such as copy editors and page designers, believe creative sports journalism often is substituted for fact-based sports reporting. Cable operators could now charge customers as much as they wanted, as long as they operated in a competitive market. The
FCC defined this term to mean any television market in which viewers had access to at least three over-the-air broadcast signals, and 90 percent of American cities met this condition. With the removal of the last few limitations on its growth and profitability, cable TV entered a period of rapid expansion. Every Saturday morning on ESPN2 is "Bass Saturday" where Bass Fishing programs are shown.
[] edit On-screen graphics The "2" does not feature the signature stripe through the font like the other letters in the logo. ESPN's sports ticker, the "BottomLine", continues to
run at the bottom of the screen, featured on all ESPN2 programs, whereas ESPN still only features the ticker during its highlights programs and at :18 and :58 on the hour during live game coverage. The channel's original name was ESP, for Entertainment and Sports Programming, but it was
changed prior to launch. sports WWLP NBC Springfield, Massachusetts World Hockey Association New England Whalers public-address announcer cable television Connecticut Hartford Whalers Connecticut Huskies [1] ESPN started with the debut of hosted by and on September 7, 1979. When Sports Center decided to become live (the best move by ESPN) you could watch it all day and things would always change because sports are always going on. I know this is just not an addiction by me.
Whenever
I walk
into a male dominated house I could find ESPN on 85% of the time. ESPN is a network that you can find all type of shows on from Cold Pizza, Sports Center, PTI, Etc. Woody Paige gave a keynote speech to
650 brothers and friends at the 51st General Assembly. At the conclusion of his speech, Executive Vice President Bill Farkas
presented Paige the Order of Achievement award. Paige says he
values the time he spent with Lambda Chi Alpha. He believes it
helped build character and has the ability to shape people who they are at an older age. By 1985, the price of DTH systems fell to $3000 and 735,000 systems were in use. By 1998,
11,000 cable systems would provide subscription programming to 66% of U.S. homes. 1976 - Ted Turner uplinked broadcasting from his UHF station in Atlanta and created WTBS, "America's Station." 1977 - Pat Robertson began satellite delivery of the CBN cable network, forerunner of the Family Channel. If you're searching for just the right speaker of interest...the speaker
with whom your audience will quickly relate&a speaker that has made a difference in our world, schedule Bill. Learn about ESPN's history, of course, and see, feel and experience
the indomitable American entrepreneurial spirit that spawned ESPN - The Worldwide
Leader in Sports. The cable industry's four million subscribers,
scattered
among 40 independent cable companies, was considered a rounding error in the Nielsen ratings. But Stuart Evey said yes, and the rest, as they say, is history. But it's history of a most remarkable and dramatic sort, and a history, at least of the early years, that has until now gone largely unreported. Evey's life at the helm of ESPN plunged him into a world of intrigue,
backroom
negotiations, and duels with executives at Getty, the
major
networks, and Hollywood studios. It is scheduled to open in spring 2009. One of the studios will host late-night editions of . L.A. Live Staples Center SportsCenter [7] In 2007, ESPN signed an agreement with the to broadcast at least one game every weekend, usually on Monday nights.
Arena
Football League As of January 15, 2008,
ESPN has signed a multi-million dollar contract with professional gaming circuit or MLG for short. Although some have argued that professional gaming is not a physical sport, ESPN has gone ahead with this collaboration. Rasmussen also broke cable televisions advertising barrier by signing on Anheuser-Busch as cable televisions first million-dollar advertiser. He spoke about his early media career, which including stints at WTTT-AM in Amherst and WWLP-TV in Springfield, and his entrepreneurial ventures, such as his first business Ad Aid Inc. and his latest endeavor College Fanz Sports Network. Since its premiere on September 7, 2007, 28 years to the day after
launching ESPN, College Fanz has become
the worlds
largest
online
college sports community for students, alumni and fans of college sports. For example, the MLB League Championship Series and NBA Conference Finals are on cable. Also, 95% of Fox’s BCS audience viewed the games via cable or satellite (not over-the-air). The cable migration has already occurring on a regional level (YES, NESN, etc.) so this has become the norm. On teams/conferences creating their own networks: The number one challenge is distribution. This is what the Big Ten Network has struggled most with. Sept. 7, 1979: Jim Rosenberg and Ellen
Beckwth (foreground) at the launch of the network The very first SportsCenter on Sept. 7, 1979 George Grande and Bob Ley at
the SportsCenter anchor desk The sports world changed
forever as ESPN aired its first program at 7 p.m. ET on Sept. 7, 1979.
Although I was not able to cover everything, I did get a number of
video interviews with some of the most prominent names in sports,
along with some up and coming sports executives and companies.
Check out this video interview with , a man who needs no introduction for the ! He breaks down how he got involved with ESPN and where his big break came from
getting into the sports industry. Former NASN logo used
up to 1 February 2009. In late , NASN's owners, Europe and , agreed to sell the network to for 70m. 2006 Benchmark Capital Setanta Sports ESPN [4] The sale was completed in March 2007 but NASN continues to be part of the Setanta Sports Pack on . satellite television [1] [5] In
December 2007, it was announced that ESPN was interested in making a bid for the 2009 contract to air the . Towards the end of the commercial, Harris believes that pro wrestling is not a real sport but Cena disagrees. WWE John Cena Jay Harris SportsCenter A 2007 ad features running back sitting next to the in the office (a take on NFL players cooling off near the fan).
New Orleans Saints Reggie Bush air conditioner A 2007 ad features driver performing his trademark , not once but twice in
an attempt to cheer up a dejected in the kitchen. Naysayers abounded - especially among the broadcast giants of the day. There were no 24-hour networks back in 1979 - not ABC, CBS, NBC, not even
HBO.
Fox hadn't been thought of - even CNN and MTV hadn't gotten off the
mark when ESPN debuted at 7:00 PM, Friday, September 7, 1979. Today,
ESPN, The Worldwide Leader in Sports, reaches more than 90 million US households and is delivered in many languages to
countless countries around the world.