It is simply
mesmerizing how
the energy of the water of the nearby river is used to power all the tools needed for the craft; a series of belts are interconnected and can easily be changed at will according to the
size of the object
desired. It is simply wonderful to watch. The factory is a little hard to find, but most shop owners will be able to direct you, or if you prefer, you can go with an organized tour, there are plenty to choose from. Years ago, Inuyasha's father made some enemies with a rival moth clan. And now, the moth clan has reappeared and need Inuyasha's Tessaiga to break the seal that was placed on them years ago. In order to do that, they do what enemies do best, and make trouble by trying to take control of Kagome and other members of Inuyasha's group... In modern Tokyo, 15 year-old school girl Kagome Higurashi, falls down the well of her family Shinto shrine and emerges in the of Japan. She finds a half-demon on a tree, seemingly trapped, in an enchanted sleep. Villagers find the girl and take her to Kaede, an old priestess, who recognizes Kagome to be the reincarnation of her older sister, Kikyo. Michiko was calm as
usual...Keiko
was in tears, and Ryohei, after accepting the flowers & cards, surprised me and everyone else by jumping up and giving me a fat hug. I love ya too, big guy. ^_^ After my small eternity on the mic, the other UC students all got to say a few words about their experiences. Inu-Yasha attempts to regain it, but the ill-timed coming of the new moon threatens to reveal his secret. How much has Kagura seen? Meanwhile, Miroku (plus Sango) head into the woods to investigate the disappearance of an entire village's male population. Is this "beautiful princess" they've heard of somehow connected? Jestem spiąca i wykończona ;3:
... bo jest początek naszej ukochanej sesji egzaminacyjnej Ja wiem, że mam zaliczenia ale i tak już praktycznie wyczerpała mi się bateria, a tu jeszcze 8 dni zajęć, wykładów i zaliczeń (do ferii mam jednak calutkie 14 dni). Noworoczne postanowienie: Zaliczę mój 3ci i 4ty semestr studiów z dobrymi ocenami. HOME > SPECIAL
EDITIONS - INUYASHA >INUYASHA - DVD - THE MOVIE 3: SWORDS OF AN HONORABLE RULER Inuyasha - DVD - The Movie
3: Swords of an Honorable Ruler Share with a friend is darker and more dramatic than the two previous features--or the broadcast series. Inu-Yasha's father Inu no Taisho, the
Great Dog Demon,
possessed not two but
three swords:
Tetsusaiga, Tenseiga, and Sounga, which
are linked to Earth, Heaven, and Hell, respectively. The plot is very interesting, as it incorporates legends and real life, past and present. The brisk pacing assures us that there's never a dragging moment. Our heroes come across all sorts of monstrous encounters, each one more exciting than the last. If there was a way to
depict violence and gore in a "nice" way, Ms.