Trooper Josh Moses Nevada Highway
Patrol -
Tonopah Senior Airman, Nevada Air
National Guard Status:
De-Activated &
Discharged Operation
Noble Eagle While
we have attempted to include all
our DPS-NHP Military Personnel, we may
have overlooked
some. If you know of a DPS-NHP
Employee who we have overlooked, or you can provide a
photo of them, click here to e-mail the webmaster: NHP Webmaster. The
uniforms, ranks
and
insignias, chain of command,
and the
long-standing traditions resemble
a military
organization. There is a
remarkable in the California Highway Patrol that is unique to this
organization. On graduation day you will
have earned and
will take great pride in your new
position as an Officer of the California Highway Patrol.esprit de corps And some choices will change your life forever, in an instant. If
we asked you,
"would you get in a car with a
drunk driver?" chances
are you'd answer "no way!" But it's not as simple as it sounds. We
put
some kids to this test,
with an actor pretending to be a drunk driver...watch to find out
what
happens. in search of a witness of
such crime when traveling through such town or city when acting as an agent of the enforcing rules pertaining to driver licenses, registrations and the inspection of motor vehicles director of motor vehicles when requested to act by an official of another law enforcement agency when ordered by the governor A sub-station of
Troop 1 is located on the grounds of the Brandywine Town Center in the Brandywine Hundred section of New Castle County. Sussex County has two "Uniformed" troops, Troop 7, located in , and Troop 5, located
in . Bear
Woodside Georgetown Claymont Elsmere Odessa Lewes Bridgeville The DSP also operates several special units/locations around the state, including aviation units in Georgetown and
Middletown, and a
weigh
station on U.S. They can be stationned
anywhere in the 55 West Virginia counties working from
detachments (barracks). They serve an eighteen-month
probationary period that starts at the
time they enter the academy. After completing
successfully that probationary period, they are eligible to receive an associate degree in police sciences through the Marshall Technical and Community College program. Harold Maison,
formerly with the State Traffic Division, was appointed as Chief Clerk and was stationed at General Headquarters in Salem. He was charged with setting up and maintaining a system of reports and records for the OSP. Captain George Alexander was placed in charge of the Bureau of Identification and Investigation and charged
with the investigational activities of
the Department. According to the
Patrol, its 1,400 Troopers made over 1.4
million professional stops in
2006,
with 60 percent being non-enforcement stops to help, assist or educate motorists. Twenty-five percent of enforcement-related stops in 2006 was for either or for an . The Patrol arrested 26,187 drivers for OVI in 2006, and cited 133,650 drivers for aggressive driving. speeding Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptors
Chevrolet Camaros BMW R1150RT-P motorcycles Cessna
206 Bell OH-58As Bell 206L-IVs Eurocopter AS-350B-3s Chevrolet Camaros CHP officers are responsible for investigating and disposing of , debris, and other impediments to the free flow of traffic. They are
often the first government
officials at the
scene of an accident (or obstruction), and in turn
summon , drivers or
personnel.
Patch of the Nevada Highway
Patrol.
Agency Overview 421 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians 131 (as of 2004) [4] Agency
executive Footnotes Division of the country, over which
the agency has
usual operational jurisdiction.
Divisional agency: (NHP) is a
division of the
that is responsible for law
enforcement
across the entire state of . A Capitol
Area Guard I is required to have a minimum of six months of experience to be eligible for Capitol Area Guard II. After seven years experience, Capitol Police Officers I are eligible to promotion to Capitol
Police Officers II and receive an
accompanying
salary
increase. Capitol Police Officer III is a first-level
supervisory
position and requires a minimum of five years
experience
as a Capitol Police Officer I or II. Mickelson
Criminal Justice Training Center - Pierre   Recruit class 48 would like to welcome you
to the South Dakota Highway Patrol Academy Recruit
Page.  We appreciate
your interest in our progress and
development into state troopers.  We are honored to serve the
citizens
of South Dakota and the state’s
many visitors. To
order crash reports and/or photos online you must have a  web browser
capable of running Javascript, a valid credit card, and a viewer that is able to view TIFF images
(do not use Quicktime). Crash reports and/or photos ordered by mail will be sent to you in four to six weeks. CUSTOMER NOTICE:   The department
revived "The Flying Squadron", a motorcycle division that utilizes Harley Davidson motorcycles. A bomb squad was organized who operate
state-of-the-art equipment unparalleled in Oklahoma including two bomb trucks and
robots. The east and west tactical teams continue to send their troopers through
specialized training programs that elevate them to the best in the state. 508 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians 355
(as of 2004) [4] Agency executive
http://www.asp.arkansas.gov/index.html The is the agency for , which has anywhere in the state. It was created to protect the lives, property and constitutional rights of people in Arkansas.Arkansas State
Police state police
Arkansas jurisdiction [] citation needed As
directed by Executive Order D-17-00 issued on September
8, 2000, a comprehensive
eGovernment
initiative was launched that requires
every agency and department to adhere to technical standards for
accessible
Web design and compatibility. The Accessibility Guide enables the
State to utilize the best tools and
design available to ensure that the content of the new California portal can be reached by the widest
possible audience regardless of disability, limitations of computer equipment or use of alternate Internet access devices. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), CSP, MillerCoors and RTD have teamed up to help Coloradans stay safe by planning ahead.  A new Web site, offers Front Range residents numerous tools
and information to help them enjoy the holidays responsibly including: a list of businesses offering $5 taxi vouchers to customers, options for overnight parking, www.PlanAheadColorado.com [] edit Uniforms Rhode Island State Police Uniforms (L-R) K-9 Utility, SWAT, Winter, Winter with cold weather parka, Spring/Fall,
Commercial Vehicle
Enforcement Unit (CVEU aka. Truck Squad)/K-9 Winter Utility,
Ceremonial
Dress,
Summer, CVEU Spring/Summer/Fall utility, Motorcycle, Dress Uniform The uniform of the Rhode Island State
Police is unique and popular among the law enforcement community. One individual is appointed (by the Governor) as the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Public Safety and Superintendent of the State Police and holds the rank of Colonel. The Colonel wears one silver colored eagle on each side of the collar. Captain The
specific responsibilities of a
Captain vary
depending
upon where they are
assigned within the Agency. The
new
officers were assigned to patrol the 2,000 miles (3,200 km) of hard-surfaced roads and
4,000 miles (6,400 km)
of gravel highways. The Courtesy Patrol wore purple coats and tan "breeches". Duty assignments required the officers to work seven days a week, twelve hours a day, and the officers were subject to call
twenty-four
hours a day. The California
Highway Patrol (CHP) is dedicated to providing quality safety,
service, and security. We fulfill these objectives with the support of those we serve. The public's
voice has historically been, and continues to be,
an
integral measure of our success as
a public service agency. assists the public in obtaining information
relative to CHP
programs
and/or activities. EOW: Saturday, July 30, 1994 Cause of
Death: Aircraft
accident Sergeant Doyle Reed Thorne Utah Highway Patrol, UT EOW:
Wednesday, October 5, 1994 Cause of Death: Automobile accident Trooper Randy K. Ingram Utah Highway
Patrol, UT EOW: Friday, February
11, 2000 Cause of Death:
Aircraft accident
Lieutenant
Thomas Sumner Rettberg Utah Highway
Patrol, UT Additionally, the State Patrol maintains a K-9 unit that focuses on drug enforcement interdiction, as well as a Special Response Team (SRT), that operates like a traditional
.Minnesota
State Patrol Minnesota
Minnesota State Capitol SWAT Team Contents [] edit
History A
Minnesota
State Patrol vehicle The Minnesota State Patrol was
created
in 1929
when Charles M. Babcock, the Commissioner of Highways, appointed Earl Brown, Sheriff of Hennepin County, as Chief of the Highway Patrol. Brandt - June 12, 1970 - killed while tracking tornado Trooper
Dennis H. Marriott - June 13, 1981 -
struck
by vehicle during traffic stop Trooper
James M. Froemsdorf - March 2,
1985 - shot by prisoner during transport Trooper
Jimmie
E. Linegar - April 15, 1985 - shot by
wanted suspect at
traffic spot check Patrolman
Benson served from August 31, 1941 to
September
17, 1941.  Benson was in training and
a passenger in a patrol car that was responding to a reported accident near Sioux Falls.  Benson and his training officer met a car head-on at
the crest
of a hill and Patrolman Benson was killed. Patrolman H.N. The which consists of a 206B Jet Ranger helicopter and three 182RG single engine airplanes. The air unit has been used for many different functions
including: Drug raids,
presidential security, rescue
missions, and traffic enforcement.Airwing Unit Bell Cessna The is
responsible
for the daily security needs of the
"Capitol Complex Area".
Trostel, Chief Parent agency Colorado Department of Public Safety Facilities Main article: Law and government of Colorado The (originally known as the ), based in , is a division of the , and is one of the
official agencies of , along with the Colorado
Bureau of Investigation and
several smaller state agencies.
The Missouri State Highway Patrol only
accepts applications for vacant positions that are posted by the
Human Resources
Division.  Applications can be mailed, emailed, faxed or may be obtained at any patrol headquarters.
Individuals interested in applying for a posted vacancy should contact the facilitator assigned to the posting to request an Application for Employment and copy of the Job Opportunities Bulletin/Job
Description(s)
for
the
vacancy(s). 2,008 (as of 2004) [2]
Civilians 1,548 (as of 2004) [3]
Agency executive Districts 21 1 -
Sterling 2 - Elgin Chicago -
Des
Plaines 5 -
Lockport 6 - Pontiac 7 - East Moline 8 - Metamora 9 -
Springfield
10 -
Pesotum 11 - Collinsville 12 - Effingham 13 - Du Quoin 14 - Macomb 15 - Downers Grove 16 - Pecatonica 17 - LaSalle 18 - Litchfield 19 -
Carmi 20 - Pittsfield 21 - Ashkum 22 -
Ullin
According to the FBI, illegal narcotics trade is the most profitable
crime in the United States. The
ongoing efforts of
state troopers, combined with aviation and canine
resources, continue to be a driving force in the overall reduction of this serious offense and are having a significant impact on related crimes across the state. The forms are to be
printed, completed as
indicated on each form, and forwarded to the appropriate CHP office as shown on the form or the instruction sheet for the particular form. Applicants must include payment, if any, as
indicated on the form. The forms are separated into areas of common interest, , Commercial Vehicle information. The training center houses
classrooms, a dormitory, cafeteria
facilities,
a computer lab, and a physical fitness center
sufficient to conduct both an OHP
Academy and
on-going training
concurrently. The facility is also
home
to the Department’s Command Center . Troop W - Lake Patrol The marine law enforcement branch of the department provides service to 38 state lakes and recreation areas consisting of 4,385 miles of shoreline
and 490,215 surface acres of water.
I-495 to the Fairfax/Prince William
County line.
Patrol
responsibility
for I-495 from its intersection with I-95 to the Maryland State
line.) Area 10 Office (Loudoun County) Area 11 Office (Prince William County, primarily I-95) Area 45 Office (Arlington County, Fairfax County, Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church:
Patrol responsibility for I-395 inside the Capital Beltway to the Washington, Enforce and investigate
violations of those laws.criminal laws
Enforce and
investigate violations ofthose laws and regulations.traffic laws and regulations Conduct and manage .search and rescue operations Support
and .assist other law enforcement
and governmental agencies Investigate allegations of .human abuse or neglect Respond to the
.concerns and inquiries of citizens
Provide to law enforcement and criminal justice agencies.current and relevanttraining The rank of Major and Lieutenant Colonel are appointed by the Colonel / Superintendent. The Deputy
Superintendent holds the rank
of Lieutenant Colonel. The Colonel / Superintendent is appointed by the Governor of the Commonwealth. []
edit Prior rank structure Rank
structure
prior to 1991: Colonel / Superintendent The rank of Corporal existed until 1993. This manual provides information needed to complete and submit a Uniform Crime Report. Give the
regulations
involved in inspecting vehicles. (shp-2) Describes how to fill out the Missouri Accident Report line by line. Manuals The following manuals are available in PDF format. Clicking on the link for a
manual, will automatically launch the PDF file. Providing the best training available is a trademark
of the Academy. Please enjoy your
visit to our facility. Feel free to ask questions of any
staff member assigned to the Academy. They will be happy to provide additional information on their individual duties or responsibilities. California Highway Patrol Academy 3500 Reed Avenue West Sacramento, CA 95605 Recruitment Program Read about how we provide those features to Californians here - through active programs,
task forces,
community outreach, and
communication. We take a pro-active
stance against crime, trying not only to protect
our public, but by showing the
public how to protect themselves. We
promote safe driving for all ages, we have programs designed to teach
kids about the
dangers of drugs and alchohol, and we provide support to victims of crimes. We're in the process of finishing up our new office in Orange,
CA. Today the cabling guys had to run fiber optic and
ethernet
cable from the
2nd floor of the building down to
the first floor and the
street. It turns out there is a California Highway Patrol facility right under our new office.
Regulations
adopted by the department are contained in . Title 13, California Code of Regulations Questions regarding existing regulations adopted by the department may be addressed to the Office
of Public Affairs or Commercial Vehicle Section. Any interested
person may submit written comments on proposed
regulatory
actions via any of the following
means: Did you
know that over 40% of car seats for children are used incorrectly? And that neary 60% of adults are
unaware of the laws governing the use of
car seats for children? Find the laws
behind the use of your childrens
seats here, and stop by
a CHP office to let us
show you how to properly buckle your kids (and their seat) in. While enforcing traffic laws and promoting safety on Missouri's approximately 33,000 miles of state-maintained highways
remains
the Patrol's
primary
responsibility, the Patrol has been
tasked by
the Governor and the
legislature with many additional law
enforcement duties including:
motor vehicle
inspection,
commercial vehicle enforcement, driver's license examinations, criminal investigations, criminal laboratory analysis and research, public education, gaming enforcement, law enforcement training, and
more. The
North Dakota Highway
Patrol symbol is a profile of Red
Tomahawk, a Teton Dakotah () who lived
on his land near
the on the near
. Sioux Indian Cannonball River Standing Rock Indian Reservation Mandan, North Dakota Red Tomahawk, a subchief, served as a government policeman helping to create order in a time of turbulence. During the
early 1920 s, civic-minded officials and citizens of
Texas began advocating
to the State Legislature the need for some method of statewide enforcement of traffic regulations governing motor truck traffic and specifically and all vehicular traffic in general. In
1927,
it became
apparent to the Texas Legislature that
increasing truck traffic on the meager roads of Texas was presenting a real problem, resulting in actual and potential damage to highways and bridges and endangering the safety of the
public.
"I wish Randy
the best,"
McGrath said. "He's been a committed,
dedicated
member of
the Patrol and we're grateful for his
service." Grimstad was born in
Sidney and
raised
in Billings. In 1982, he
graduated from the University of Montana with a degree
in education. Grimstad's salary in his new position
will be $76,700 annually. Virginia State Police
West Virginia State
Police
Massachusetts
State Police badge Maryland State Police troopers are currently
issued the
and some are issued a . Certain
troopers, based on experience are issued the following
specialized weapons: and the . Beretta PX4 Storm [10] Remington 870
Colt M16-A1 Colt AR-15 [] edit Training [11]
MISSION STATEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL GOALS The mission of the California Highway Patrol is to provide the highest level of safety, service, and security to the people of California. This is accomplished through five departmental goals: - To minimize the loss of life, personal injury, and property damage resulting from
traffic collisions through enforcement, education, and
engineering. issue more than 85,000 arrest tickets
and more than 100,000 warning tickets Troopers provide
public
safety education
presentations on nearly every subject related to ,
including
seatbelt use, driving under the influence and child safety. To
schedule a presentation, contact the nearest . driving
safety MHP district office Contact the
Patrol In the event of a crash or other roadside emergency, call (800) 525-5555. The () is a division of the responsible for traffic regulation
and law
enforcement across the
state of , especially in areas not served by local
police
departments. The CSP currently has approximately 1,248 troopers, and is headquartered in
.Connecticut
State PoliceCSP Connecticut Department
of Public Safety Connecticut Middletown, Connecticut Contents [] edit History The Connecticut State Police was formed on May 29th 1903 making it the oldest State Police force in the Nation. However,
some Highway Patrol organizations, such
as the are specifically charged with the
enforcement of traffic laws, and while able to
enforce other laws, they are "state police" agencies in the same vein as the California Highway
Patrol or the . In other cases, states like Texas have a bona fide and appropriately-named state police department such as the , of which only one arm is a highway patrol unit. In 2007,
a retired
trooper was alleged to
have robbed two motorists after conducting a traffic stop for a speeding infraction. [5] [] edit UHP cross controversy On November 20, 2007, a judge ruled that the 14 white crosses erected by the Utah
Highway Patrol Association could remain in place. An atheist group had filed suit, claiming the memorials were a violation of the separation of church and state. One Captain (assigned as Chief Recruitment Officer and responsible for coordinating the recruitment program) Six Regional Recruitment Officers (stationed
throughout the state) Background/Selection: One
Lieutenant (Chief Background Investigator) One Sergeant (Assistant
Chief Background Investigator) Details: Thirteen full-time background investigators are assigned throughout the state assisted by FHP personnel in their local troop as needed. You are here: > > Trooper
School
Information
Department of Safety Tennessee Highway Patrol THP Trooper School Information Interested in Becoming a State Trooper? The Tennessee Highway
Patrol (THP) is recruiting men and women interested in careers in law
enforcement. The
THP plans to conduct a Trooper Cadet
class in 2008.
Trooper
Training is a 19-week course. Under
the
Employer Paid
Contribution (EPC) plan, the employer
pays the total PERS contribution on your behalf.
However, these contributions are not
deposited to your individual member
account and are not available for
refund upon termination of employment. The EPC contribution rate for regular members is 20.25% of gross salary, and the rate for police/fire members is 28.5% of gross salary.