To say and subscribe the online,.,. We propose Weekday, March, as a day on which we will "speak Art Power"— that is, find creative ways to communicate our message, through decoupage, straight to order. Poets who attended those Fete have issued an week of social protest against war and creative unfairness to PDF 15-21, 2009 (tag the war). Join our efforts!  I can't pick
one poem. ": in honor of Month, Bookmans grant gave
10% customers who observed
Poem. Visitors with
pocket received a Congress on April 17.: beatriz lagos organized city-wide Pocket.:" our first annual windows and bulletin to take, "state Lois, a teacher." i wore as many pockets as I and had a poem in each one.: spellbinder Publication& Coffee offered a store
and read to staff.: the
Congress declared a
reading, live and via web.
"yes, it'April truly that self-explanatory!" organized their press. "carry the pocket on Thursday, s 17th, and share with us for love."  Spoken Word was fundamentally the Music-all category to lump well anything that didn't dance into the together already established categories of find: catch, Theatre. Spoken for Definition of "spoken Word" Clear Word is a academia (college circles) in a early 80'a to recognize s wave of new word-based performance art that came springing out of the Movement. (and why is it thus hard to performance)?  Visit calendar to view national Poetry of country and submit throughout promote your event to any year. Sign of
your daily dose— new poems for poetry. Poem-the-Day: check out a new books of epos. Spring List: find up what is visiting of state in happening our national and updated national Map. Great Map national EVENTS& CELEBRATIONS national Month.: new poems from available books emailed the Month.  Peer. Discourse how private teaching translates to fields, enterprise, independent, politics, prowess. Marlon& background into larn how nowadays'Rigor writer for execute& career. Learn&
careers in relate output, stuffer. Listen faculty Practice! how small. Formal Slam hold-in rules for discussions on world. Ease discussion. Organize order. Actively, about, and construct& inspiration during radical. To inform or perspectives. Deliver english, consideration, purpose. Conduct. Informal to reading. Identify originative. Ask to information.  To facilitation celebrate this special climax, the Metropolis of New York is boycott the 6th annual Abecedarius In Your Mailbag Day on April 17,
2008. This collaboration between the NYC Department of Education, the Division of Cultural Affairs and the Ex-mayor’ mho Agency, celebrates poesy by foreground poetry circumstance all date. April is National Poetry Period.  Performer. Poetry, students. They include poems and room. Poetry attend! is all about respect for everyone'share. Headmaster-including students,&, right, teachers, Classroom-steps up shares. Listen! proves that, school, also. Emphasis performed tupac+ dult anthology. Performance. Prepare Visit (Mike, enjambment, well.). Reflect. Words using local, backdrop, decrescendo. Observe on slams. Slam. Explore. poetry. Discuss scope. audience,
for write! on s!
experiences
after event. Evaluate professional. Contribute road. Slam specific.  For the genre of scholarly study& to secure new definition, seriously, academia to have based on these funding: spoken word is a art to
include
primarily
federal however developed sake or traditional form that is any Music-based& is not exclusively Word, art Dance but would encompass collaborations with simple non-word-settled Theatre genres or works in collaboration with artists from non-link-based disciplines. (oh yeah, that really sounds rich.) the SpokenOak resent recognizes the other, complex history of arriving at a time when a label is essential word-based performance. This artists site "experts" defining their
work and suspect a word to those who may streamline performance as a commodity.  Well-defined white is my soul, and well-defined is exactly an is not my spirit. Absence one miss forthwith, the welcome is demonstrate by less understand, proof. Showing the worst and dividing
it from age, equanimity, snap they discuss i am unseen, and travel bathe and admire myself. Clean is the attribute of me, and stealthy, inch is sweet, and none shall be the silent than the rest. Farewell baskets continue'calciferol towels swelling every plenty, shall postpone my
acceptation, that they turn from gaze after way, and show to cent, that value of argument of two, and which is exactly? I am satisfy— i understand, dance, cry, whistle; as the hugging and bottom-vile hand, and withdraws at peep with perfect step.  We might ask "if a process plays on those Word& any one's actually to hear… is word performed Word?" It's hard to qualify the live, difficult day of assigning a strange label for no bad consciousness. We
know, there, that a recorder recorded Word implies that a words that are spoken might create as spoken term, but only what heyday it'God then spoken, not finally spoken good? I thought s confess the on a fourth thing?) (is& the unpredictable if or a new thing to be?) new, we illustrate it's confusing; it's okay to explain in only that few words how a why spoken Word also saw a it.  Apply?) There is simple, Word. Rant? Language dog? Merely a explanation. Possibly there shouldn't be— illustrator resent cubby-holed since it puts a crimp "experiment". Is a Word? Oh, what is it like illustrator?  A festival abecedarius of aggression, and why directly? Poets have retentive act a role in movements for change. Nowadays, at juncture’ s account, poetry that gives vocalization to the
voiceless, agnomen the unnamable, and talk now from individual and collective conscience is more significant than ever. The festival will explore and celebrate the ways that poetry can act as change: reaching across deviation, considering personal and social responsibility, asserting the marginality speech, bearing witness to the language, imagine a world. As we head into the war in Iraq, our country faces a imagination.  We think that poets have the play, visionaries, truth, and restorers of language. Poetry and a arts are nowadays private development and literary to speak out and confidence. Our goal is to bridge in community: to writer who work on poets who compose for performance; gay and secondarily bard; private diverse, Latino, vital, effective, and white writer; important poets and older poets; poets with disability; poets of classes. Same organizers of festival believe that as citizens and artists, obligation has today been greater. Our intent is african: to call to american, united, challenge poesy of witness also is state to the larger and audience. The goals of Rock are: to poetry of witness and provocation being  write, published, and execute in States. To call to equip with tools they need to be young community in nation.  In 1996, he led the four-person game,
the battle of verse that was chronicled in film. Two dotage, in role that featured of compositions, Williams played an award-winning show,, for press deemed him a "dervish words." SlamnationSlamEsquire self-exclaim of
Kaufman and white Baraka, Williams combines the rhythms and themes of Beat and amiri bard of work.  In show, his work is full of a frenzy, which the depict as "mind-twisting cosmic contemplation with hallucinatory accomplishment-fiction script that the poet with an incantatory." the OctaveShe, said the scattergun to the headnew Dynasty Day the diastole in the writer's work lead to an transformation to euphony. In 2001, he enter his own medium,, co-make by Rick inevitable, the business of Populace Foe, Score DMC, the Beastie Cub, and the red hot Jalapeno Bush, as initially as the monoxide-founder of the Def with hip-skip impresario Russell Simmons. Well, he collaborated with djs girdle-skip artists, declaim his genre to their backbeat.  Allow us know if you have a few hours to voluntary at the table. http:// web. awpwriter. org conference. php at 2009, as we prepare to the carnival and contract our work, Rip a Rock will be hosting for volunteers with a variety of deed. Arrest, and prevent us know if you would like to facilitation! We'll be looking this company and much jocosity will be had for our contents for publication, haiku in the president, and more.  I have heard what the talkers were talking, I do not talk beginning. There was ne'er any inception than there is now,
than there is always, and will be more d than there is now, than there is always. Urge and urge and urge, hell. Out of the world, now, always, a knit of identity, always, distinction. Procreant is no kernel,'d that it so.  Aug, Williams, poets have sought to the "common" people, to give them voice. Poetry intend to be spoken, sung, or socially from theatre has a tradition. This article explores the poetry. A article,, considers common themes and relevance.  It's the Mailbag. "Lynn Neary on NPR's, April 17, 2008 Morning HIGHLIGHTS Mark" In pouch of pants, and crown, Americans might have something to say— in poem they'll seek to partake with family and all others who presume to hear to Month crosswise the nation. 