Occasionally, immense and powerful solar storms overwhelm the magneto-sphere and disrupt high-tech communications, damage satellites, and cause
power blackouts. Hence, as we become more dependent on satellite communications technology, we are more   Today's image of the Sun from NASA's SOHO spacecraft. See more of the sun. live images   susceptible to effects of the
active and dynamic Sun. Reasons for studying the Sun, however, are not solely limited to its effects on Earth. For astronauts in space, outside of the Earth protective magnetosphere, solar storms pose a real danger; these storms release deadly radiation that can serious harm astronauts in space. There is still much we don't understand about the Sun and its effects on Earth. How the Sun affects climate, for example, is not well understood. The were what traditional called the two astrological "" which were the brightest and most important objects in the heavens, that
is,luminaries astrologers planets the
Moon The Sun and Moon were well-established rulers of the other planets, in accordance with the ancient doctrine of ,
which made the Sun the ruler of of events and
individuals born in the daytime, when the Sun was
over the horizon; and the Moon the ruler of night charts,
when the Sun was below the horizon. astrology of sect charts Ancient astrologers divided all astrological factors into day and night groups: , (or "Lots") and all planetary characteristics. Even each of the themselves "belonged" to one luminary or the other. The luminary "in charge" of any given chart was called the (See .) Does the sun influence the temperature of the earth? Share ideas. Have students give proof or examples of what they believe. Help group come up with a general statement they believe in and a hypothesis How can you prove the sun influences or does not influence the temperature of earth surfaces? Discuss ways to conduct an experiment or test to see
if the temperature of the earth is influenced by the sun. Some of these ideas can be used as "Extension Ideas" or further experiments. Activity Give each student or pair a thermometer and the age-appropriate handout. Go over where the students may go to take the temperature of different surfaces. Ask an
Astronomer for KIDS! - Is the sun the largest star? Is the
sun the largest star? Although the sun appear larger to us than any other star, there are many stars which are much larger. The sun appears so large compared to the other stars
because it is so much closer to us than any other star. The sun is just an average sized star. For example, below is a list of some of the largest stars in our galaxy and how they compare to our sun: Mu
Cephi - about 1500 times the size of our sun
Betelgeuse - about 900 times the size of our sun Antares - about 530 times the size of our sun Deneb - about 145 times the size of our sun Ask an Astronomer for KIDS! - How do the planets stay in orbit around the sun? How do the
planets stay in orbit around the sun?
The solar system was formed from a rotating cloud of gas
and dust which spun around a newly forming star, our sun, at its center. The planets all formed from this spinning disk-shaped cloud, and continued this rotating course around the sun
after they were formed. The gravity of the sun keeps the
planets in their orbits. The stay in their orbits because there is no other force in the solar system which can stop them. While the gas model has enjoyed popular support over the past 50 years, that has not always been the case.  In fact astronomers of 100 years ago believed in a predominantly iron sun, most notably .  Dr. Birkeland studied the
Northern Lights and became interested in the electrical interaction between the sun and the earth.  His early lab research with an electrified iron sphere suspended in a vacuum ("terella") led to images that are remarkably similar to modern satellite x-ray images of the sun.  The bottom photo of this page shows the
electrical activity that Birkeland documented in his lab next to an image from the Yohkoh satellite.  The electrical arcs from the surface of both spheres is what emits the x-rays and
gamma rays seen in and images of the sun. The SOHO project is being carried out by the European Space Agency (ESA) and the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) as a cooperative effort between the two agencies in the framework of the Solar Terrestrial Science Program (STSP) comprising SOHO and CLUSTER, and the International Solar-Terrestrial Physics Program (ISTP), with Geotail (ISAS-Japan), Wind, and Polar.
SOHO Exploring the Sun This web page is presented for those who have an interest in the spectrohelioscope and perhaps the desire to build one of these interesting instruments. George Ellery Hale (1868-1938) invented the spectrohelioscope in 1924 which allowed
detection of sudden outbursts of activity on the
sun. The following photographs are of such an instrument, built by Leonard Higgins with the support, and guidance of Fredrick Veio, author of the book, "The Spectrohelioscope." If you have a generalization or , you can come up with a test to see if it is true or valid. For example, we will do a test or experiment to see if the sun does affect the temperature of the earth. hypothesis Darker and denser earth surfaces absorb more of the sun's energy and so become hotter. Lighter-colored and less dense earth surfaces absorb less light and so are cooler than darker surfaces. By
measuring and documenting the temperature of different earth surfaces, we can prove that darker surfaces absorb more of
the sun's energy, because their temperatures are higher than those of lighter surfaces. image of the Earth topographical map weather satellite imagery composite image colour composite
water vapour Expert mode custom request Details Viewing the Moon In addition to the Earth, you can also view the Moon from the , , , above on the lunar surface. or as a . You can also make and images of the Moon. A related document compares the appearance of the Moon , including an interactive . Earth Sun night side named formations map showing day and night expert custom at perigee and apogee Perigee and Apogee Calculator Browser Requirements To use the Earth and Moon Viewer, you need a graphical Web browser with forms support and the ability to display GIF and JPEG images. We invite you to explore this site, to learn about the ancestral Native Americans in New Mexico and the ancient Maya in the Yucatan, while gaining a better
understanding of the active Sun, and its importance to themnd, to us. NASA Astronaut Mark Lee on an untethered spacewalk outside of the space shuttle.   Rank#51 among all Top Level Domains DescriptionSpace.com provides information on everything Space - satellites, stars, astronomy, the Sun, planets, NASA and more. Categories satellite, stars, NASA, astronomy, sun, earth, moon, mars, mercury, Saturn, Columbia, alien, solar system, planets, galaxy satellite, stars, NASA, astronomy, sun, earth, moon, mars, mercury, Saturn, Columbia, alien, solar system, planets, galaxy Related Domains- Ranked #12970 among .de websites - Ranked #5990 among .za websites - Ranked #2721 among .nl websites - Ranked #21185 among .dk websites - Ranked
#9268 among .cl websites - Ranked #8591 among .it websites - Ranked #1882 among .gr websites - Ranked #3453 among .be websites - Ranked #16373 among .in websites - Ranked #2346 among .il websites - Ranked #3194 among .nz websites - Ranked #11765
among .hu websites
space.de And when you do that, you see that the Sun isn't as boring as it may look from earth! In the following `Trip through the Sun' you'll see flames on the Sun larger than ten earths, winds going 1000 mph, and you'll see how
the earth eventually will be scorched by the dying Sun. The duration of this journey is about 20 minutes. It shows spectacular images and animations of solar flares, sun spots, magnetic fields and solar eclipses, and explains a lot about the science of the sun and the influence it has on the solar system. The Sun Temple at Dzibilchaltun marks the equinox when the Sun rises in perfect alignment.     Early agricultural communities watched the Sun and worried about the weather. They marked the coming and
passing of the seasons with great interest. They needed to pay attention to the Sun movement as planting and harvesting dates might make the difference for that year crops. A few poor harvests in a row could threaten the survival of the community. It is not surprising that people from diverse cultures throughout the world, viewed and continue to view the Sun as the source of life. Today, these concerns have mostly disappeared; but scientists still study the Sun with consuming interest. This underlying unity of reality (God, Brahman, Tao, Spirit, Energy, Light, Vibration) is central to all major world religions, thus their common as the other is part of the self. Clearly our world is in great trouble, heading rapidly towards self destruction due to human
overpopulation and the resultant destruction of , and the pollution of air, land and water (over 80,000 man made chemicals contaminating everything we consume). The best solution to these problems is to rather than past myths and
customs which invariably cause harm. Galileo was the founding father of the gas model theory of the sun.  He observed the sun through a relatively primitive telescope and noticed that sunspots did not rotate uniformly across the surface of the photosphere.  He also observed that this visible urface rotated at different speeds near the equator than it did near the poles.  From his study of sunspots and their uneven rotation pattern, Galileo surmised that he must be looking at some type of gas
atmosphere.  He was correct in that assessment,
although today we know that the photosphere is a form of hot ionized plasma.  Unfortunately however, Galileo also "assumed" that no other solid layers existed, or could exist, beneath the visible layer of the photosphere.  That was a critical mistake.  It was a
bit like looking at a world covered in water, and having no ability to see beneath the water, and then simply  assuming that the whole world is made of water. Traditions of the Sun: Chaco Culture National Historical Park and The Yucatan are interactive applications which allow visitors to explore both the park in Chaco Canyon and the Mayan archaeological sites of the Northern Yucatan, by navigating satellite and aerial images. The sites contain hundreds of photographs, panoramic images, time-lapse videos, and other multimedia components. This project is a collaboration between NASA's Sun-Earth Connection Education Forum, the National Park Service at Chaco Canyon,
INAH and UNAM in Mexico, and Ideum, a multimedia design firm located in Corrales, New Mexico. If you have questions, comments, or technical issues, please feel free to contact us at:. info@ideum.com   Flash is required to view
this site. So far as we know, the sun and our
solar system are not in orbit around any star closer than a few light years. There are no objects large enough to provide the necessary gravitational field so that the speed of our sun would allow it to be in a bound orbit.
Between the sun and Alpha Centauri, there are no dwarf stars larger than 0.05
times the mass of the sun, despite many careful searches for such objects. Meanwhile, the gravitational force between the Sun and Alpha Centauri is so weak that this nearby star could not have any effect on the sun that is greater than, say , the gravitational
effect that the rest of the stars in the Milky
Way have upon the Sun. Current Solar Images The Cosmic and Heliospheric Learning Center, brought to you by the cosmic ray group at NASA GSFC, is designed to increase your interest in cosmic and heliospheric science. (The heliosphere is the HUGE area in space affected by the Sun.) It's an exciting subject to learn about and is a robust area of study. Cosmic and Heliospheric Learning Center This is the home of the
internet-accessible robotic solar telescope, built by Tri-Valley Stargazers member, Mike Rushford. Yes you can control your H-alpha filtered view of the sun by controlling this telescope from your web browser on sunny days in Livermore California, USA. At other times there are other things to do too! Read about the latest solar physics findings a the Stanford Solar Center. OUR NEAREST STAR IS ALPHA CENTAURI WRONG! Our nearest star is called the Sun. All the stars in the sky which we can see are similar to the
Sunthey are massive thermonuclear explosions just like a hydrogen bomb. Our Sun is about half way through its lifetime but still has enough nuclear fuel to keep the explosion going for about another thousand million years! In fact our Sun is a rather boringly average star..there are lots much bigger (or smaller) and lots much hotter (or cooler) than the Sun. The Sun just happens to be so bright to us because we are so close to it. If you were on Pluto it would not seem much bigger than the rest of the stars - it would however be a lot brighter than them (but not enough to warm you up!) Then in 1543, Nicolaus Copernicus proposed the idea that the planets and the Earth orbited around the Sun. However, Copernicus' new theory was no
better at predicting the positions of the planets in
the sky than the older, Earth-centered theory. There was still something missing..... Half a century later, sought to refine the Copernican system and truly understand how the planets
move around the Sun. He studied observations of Mars recorded
by his mentor, Tycho Brahe. Rather than trying to force the data to support a pre-determined view of the Universe, Kepler used Tycho's observations to guide the creation of his theories. This was a radical departure from the thought processes of his era, and it is a signal of the beginning of our modern scientific age.Johannes Kepler When did people discover exactly what stars were? Anaxogoras ca 320 BC believed the Sun was a fiery stone as were the stars and other planets. Aristotle proposed the Sun was made of a Fire essence, and the stars and planets were made from a 5th essence called Aether. From what I can tell, it wasn't until Giordano Bruno in 1583 that stars were equated as suns in their own right, with orbiting planets a la Copernicus. William
Herschel in the early 1800's assumed that stars were equally bright as the Sun in order to estimate the size of the universe. It wasn't really until Bessel used parallax to determine their true distances in
1838, and in 1814-1829 Fraunhofer, Foucault, Lockyer and
others used the newly invented 'stellar spectroscope' to show that the Sun and stars are made of a glowing gas, that the actual nature of stare was nailed down. The Sun, Our Star The Earth is one of nine planets orbiting the Sun, and the Sun is one of some 100 billion stars that make up the Milky Way galaxy. The Milky Way and about 30 other galaxies comprise the Local Group, which in turn is part of the local supercluster of galaxies. Superclusters seem to be grouped into even larger systems, all of which fit within the visible Universe. -Thomas T. Arny "Explorations An Introduction to Astronomy" 1996 to find out what the rest of the solar system would look like if the sun was only 10 feet tall. The luminaries can be found in the in the : creation myth
Bible ( 1:16-18,
)And God made two great lights; the greater light to
rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: He made the stars also. And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw rainbows in the distance. Genesis King James Version In modern Western , the importance of the Moon and the Sun has even come to outweigh all the other celestial factors in the interpretation of chart data. In , the Moon (and the ) have that distinction. astrology
Hindu astrology Ascendant