A comprehensive directory of U.S. Military Veteran owned businesses. Popular Sites Connecticuts finest Court Reporters Kentucky Business Directory Select a city directory from the Kentucky Business Directories menu at left. On
the town directory page select the category of business you would like to view in that town. You will find webpages from all
of your local restaurant's with full delivery menus, local services, local news, retailers, contractor's, government links and more.
Simply
choose a category or scroll down to view the complete listing. You may
also click on any business logo throughout the directory to go directly to their website. Enjoy Kentucky at your finger tips!!First Second Olivier &
Associates Sales - Use - Transaction Tax Consultants Welcome to Gordon’s Web site! Note: this site is best viewed with W3C standards-compliant browsers, such as Netscape 7.x, Safari, iCAB, IE or Opera. Also, please consider
setting your
computer’s monitor resolution
to 1024 x 768 for best viewing of the photographs. Site Content       . A Cabrillo College school project that outlived its original purpose but now lives on here! This (the major) portion of my site contains photos of various postcard-like landscapes, flowers, motorcycles, people, sailing and other stuff. Gordon’s photo gallery     A nice javascript that can help prevent automated harvesting of any of your Internet published email addresses by phishers
and spammers. ASCII text - to - HTML character translator was the first film to venture inside the three-dimensional world of computer imagery. Using early-'80s state-of-the-art computer-generated
graphics delivered a visual adventure for bit-heads, hackers and nonhackers alike. Although the terminology used is a bit loose, for a mainstream move in 1982 was really ahead of its time.TronTronTron For us, is particularly interesting. Its anthropomorphic sentient computer programs, agents, working on behalf of their users -- a World Within reflecting a World Without -- is , brought to life by a talented team of animators and computer graphic
artists.Tron computer imagery, computer-generated graphics, Gelernter's Mirror World's Mirror Worlds Computer viruses are not something that you should ignore, they can do very serious damage to your
computer
system, from deleting a few files to killing your machine DEAD. If you do not have any kind of antivirus software installed on your system, and if you do, and it is out of date, get some now before it is to late. Do not think it
will not happen to you because it will. Why do you need ani-virus software? Protects your computers from virus', worm and
trogon horses attacks If you run Outlook and you want to protect yourself, you should install the Outlook security patch.
Outlook Security Patch You need antivirus protection for your computer. Norton Antivirus is by far and away the best solution for the desktop.
Products - Norton Antivirus ZoneAlarm Pro is quite possibly the best firewall product for personal home use that currently exists.