Children are safer at school than in a bus or car. Students should not be sent home early if severe weather is approaching. Lunches or assemblies in large rooms should be delayed if severe weather is anticipated. Gymnasiums, cafeterias, and auditoriums offer no protection from tornado-strength winds. Move students quickly into interior rooms or hallways on the lowest floor. Have them assume the tornado protection position (shown at right). Besides, I get numerous such requests every year.
If I respond positively to one, why not to all? Then, it would take a bus to carry my "chase crew" ... the obvious solution is to respond to such requests the same way. If you want a chase partner, see the next item.notdon't askyourall F3 - Severe Tornado (158 - 206 mph) Path length: 10-31 miles; path width: 176-566 yards Severe damage; walls torn from well-constructed houses; trains overturned; most trees in forests uprooted; heavy cars lifted off ground and thrown. F4 - Devastating Tornado (207 - 260 mph) Path length: 32-99 miles; path width: 0.3-0.9 miles Well-constructed houses leveled; structures with weak foundations blown off some
distance; cars thrown and large missiles generated. Luckily, it takes exactly the right combination of atmospheric variables (wind, temperature, pressure, humidity, etc) to spawn even a weak tornado. On the other hand, roughly 1,000 tornadoes a year are reported in the contiguous US. Of all tornadoes formed in the US, and tornadoes account for a large percentage of occurrences. On the other end of the scale, the
massively destructive tornadoes account for less than 2% of all tornadoes in the US.F0F1F5 The Tri-State tornado plowed through nine towns and destroyed thousands of homes. When the storm was over, 695 people had lost their lives and more than 2,000 were injured. Another historic storm was the severe tornado outbreak of April 3-4, 1974. This so-called "Super Outbreak" triggered 148 tornadoes over 13 states, devastating an area from Alabama to Michigan. Also, the height from the ground would be important, because the speed at which the air moves in rushing under it will depend upon the amount of space below the cloud. These dynamics only exist during the first few minutes of the formation of a heavy cloud. Older clouds precipitate gradually and higher in the air, so no vacuum is created. Regions of the world with increased likelihood of experiencing tornadoes. top of the page Tornado
Alley In the United States, there are two regions with a disproportionately high frequency of tornadoes. Florida is one and "Tornado Alley" in the south-central U.S. is the other. Florida has numerous tornadoes simply due to the high frequency of almost daily thunderstorms. Coordinator should announce to family members, friends, neighbors and / or co-workers.Tornado Watch How will your organization announce a ?Tornado Watch Everyone should evaluate tornado vulnerable areas and be prepared to evacuate those areas. Tornado Warning is issued when a tornado or the formation of a tornado has been detected.. The National Weather Services issues a at 9:10AM and you are within the general path of the tornado. - Remember aTornado WarningTornado Warning The tornado's high-speed winds rotate about a small, relatively calm center, and suck up dust and debris, making the tornado darker and
more easily seen. What is the path length of tornadoes? How long do they last? How fast do they move? Tornado paths range from 100 yards to one mile wide and are rarely more than 15 miles long. Take shelter elsewhere or, if none is available, even a ditch offers better protection. Choose a location where your vehicle won be
hurled or rolled on top of you. More than half of tornado
deaths occur in mobile homes. If you live in a mobile home, it is wise to identify a nearby sturdy shelter well in advance, and go to that shelter when a severe storm is approaching. We then add the total of each State's indiviual rankings and divided by the number of factors (four). The data used covers the period of 1950 -1995 The period of the data is somewhat
limited, but the results are interesting. The fact's presented here challenge some present day assumptions about where tornado risk is greatest. Going that extra mile now could have significant benefits later. Install impact-resistant window systems Make certain your doors have at least three hinges and a dead bolt security lock with a bolt at least 1 inch long Because sliding glass doors
are more vulnerable to wind damage, consider installing impact-resistant door systems made of
laminated glass, plastic glazing or a combination of plastic and glass By recording a few simple observations every day and comparing them in class, each boater sees the application of the text and lecture material to
the "real world". Detailed Course
Outline The course will cover many of the significant asects of the formation and behaviour of the weather around us. Meteorology - or the scientific study of the principles of weather - can be somewhat technical. The Deadliest US Tornadoes The Deadliest US Tornado Outbreaks The Top Ten Most Deadly Tornadoes In US History 1. The Tri State Tornado Missouri, Illinois and Indiana March 18, 1925 Death Toll: 625 The worst tornado in US history began in southeastern Missouri, crossed through southern Illinois, and then turned into southwestern Indiana. The 625 deaths more than doubled the second deadliest tornado in US history. Different winds may be needed to cause the same damage depending on how well-built a structure is, wind direction, wind duration, battering by flying debris, and a bunch of other factors. Also, the process of rating the damage itself is largely a
judgment call -- quite inconsistent and arbitrary (Doswell and Burgess, 1988). Even meteorologists and engineers highly experienced in damage survey techniques often came up with different F-scale ratings
for the same damage.
/span>        Tornado eathercan be hot, sticky days with southerly winds and a threatening ominous sky.  Familiar thunderstorm clouds are present.  An hour or two before a tornado, topsy-turvy clouds appear sometimes bulging down instead of up.  The clouds often have a greenish-black color.  Rain or hail frequently precedes the tornado. /span>        Tornadoes occur mostly between 3 and 7 p.m., but they have occurred
at all hours. L13) How does the damage from hurricanes compare to tornadoes ? This FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) web site attempts to address various questions regarding hurricanes, typhoons and tropical cyclones that have been posed to us as hurricane researchers over the years. While it is not intended to be a technical
guide, references are given
throughout the FAQ for those that would like additional, detailed information. Dangerous flying debris can be blown under highway overpasses and bridges, or weaker overpasses and bridges could be destroyed. You will be safer lying flat in a low-lying area where wind and debris will blow above you. Tornadoes come from severe thunder- storms, which can produce a lot of rain. If you see quickly rising water or flood water coming towards you, move to another spot.If there is no building nearby, lie flat in a low spot. How destructive can tornadoes be? What is a tornado? A tornado is a rapidly spinning column of air that develops in association with severe thunderstorms. It can vary in size from only a few metres to over 1,000 metres in diameter and its track may be from a few hundred metres to more than 100 kilometres. It can last from only a few minutes to an hour or
more. We would appreciate feedback
from anyone involved in tornado
forecasting regarding the application of these ideas. A wall cloud is a beacon of hope for storm chasers searching for a twister, but why? Let me explain why you hear so
much about "Wall Clouds" during severe weather. A wall cloud occurs only with strong thunderstorms and appears as a lowering cloud that extends out of the main large thunderstorm. Jobs Tornado A violently rotating storm of small diameter; the most violent weather phenomenon. It is produced in a very severe thunderstorm and appears as a funnel cloud extending from the base of a cumulonimbus to the ground. A
funnel cloud is a tornado that has not touched the ground. It appears that supercells in "synoptically evident" tornado outbreak events may
be the most likely to
follow the paradigm, and even then there are questions (e.g., Hesston, and storm interactions on 3 April 1974). Also, it is becoming evident that the tornadic storms may not always be the largest storms with the strongest mesocyclonic signatures (e.g., 17 and 22 May 1995).most