Please enter some text (at least 3 characters). Quote: One or more of your tags have exceeded the 30 character limit. Cancel Posting... Note: You can enter up to [REMCHARS] additional characters. Did you know you can edit the content of this page by clicking EasyEdit?   () Related Content what's this? Related ContentThanks to keyword tags, links to related pages and threads are added to the bottom of your pages. James Woolf has been designated as the coordinator. For more information please click on the Next Generation Register above.             NEW!! The first five years of the are now available on
CD - .MGB DRIVER click here     John Thornley, grandson of John Thornley former General Manager of the MG Car Co with MG1 given to Thornley upon his retirement from the company. 1961 The new MG Midget was launched, bringing low cost motoring back to the MG enthusiast. 1962 The 1800cc MGB replaced the MGA and was destined to be the mainstay of MG production for the next MG 1100 saloon ~ BMC 1100. 20 years. 1963 The 500,000th MG was produced. An MG 1100 driven by Foster and Hedges, secured a... 1964 1300cc class win in the six-hour Touring Car Race at Brands Hatch. 1965 The MGB GT was added and dubbed as "the poor man's Aston Martin". In
fact, the term pony car was inspired by the Mustangs name and iconic badge. In an era when midsize and full-size cars went fast in a straight line, but didnt want to go around corners, the Mustang handled well by 1960s standards and offered V-8 power in a lightweight package. Rivals such as the , and came and went, but the
Mustang soldiered on without production interruptions. Well, if the results of our first planning meeting are any indication, Trillium Miata Club members are going to be happy throughout 2009. This was the first time we had a planning meeting and I think it went well.Lots of members volunteered to lead tours and we had some great suggestions for meeting locations.We even chatted about various non-Miata activities. The results will be published in Miata Miles once the details are finalized. The only issue which wasnt
resolved was that we are still looking for someone to take over the final details for our members-only Vermont weekend trip in May.The hotel has been booked. Brad will be someone to watch for in the local tire class this season. Jerrett Jan won ES on his first outing with R-comps. He was followed by Lorin Stolz (street tires) and Doug Covington. As expected, local favorite Lisa Savage took honors in BSPL in her brown Corvette. The drive home was marred by the typical extra traffic on Highway 6 and Interstate 35, but the
highlight was the stop for dinner. Eight of
us stopped off at the always yummy Elite Circle Grill in beautiful Waco, Texas for a great meal. Simon Templar, alias The Saint, was played by Roger Moore in the 1960's TV show featuring the Volvo 1800. Please e-mail any current news and rumors
about The Saint to:   Monday,
January 17, 2005 Australian DVD Set #3 Released Simon Templar is THE SAINT - adored by women, feared by his adversaries and a constant thorn in the side of police forces everywhere. His code of conduct, however, is unfailingly constant ? suave, chivalrous & utterly heroic. Roger Moore returns as THE SAINT in the series that set new trends in television adventure. Produced by ITC, THE SAINT became one of the hottest action series of the decade, running 118 episodes until 1969. Umbrella Entertainment presents the final 23 episodes from the original black & white era of THE SAINT, all adapted from
original stories by Leslie Charteris, complete, uncut & digitally remastered for the first time. Our monthly meetings are a great place to discuss service, performance, socialize or wonder what the 2009 Miata will look like. Mostly, our meetings are about Miata-tude... that's what owning a Miata is all about. Please browse through our website and feel free to provide us with your comments or questions. We'd like to thank Mazda Canada for their ongoing support of the Trillium Miata Club. I’m not the most serious person in the world so I’m going to inject my own brand of humor into this
restoration tale. I hope you will enjoy this project, encourage me in it, and if you’re Bill Gates, will drop me some serious dough so that I can get the bodywork done. I can handle everything else. Hey Bill, I’ll give you a chance to ride in it if you fund the project. You can’t drive it though, I’ve heard you don’t do that well. Published in: on February 1, 2009 at 10:01 AM Titan Books presents the further adventures of the world’s greatest secret agent, in this third
instalment of a classic
action series! After
spending over a year on a fruitless search for Ernst Stavro Blofeld and his sinister organisation, SPECTRE, Bond decides he’s had enough and pens his letter of resignation! Before he can deliver it, however, fate smiles on him
once more and it’s not long before he has
ingratiated himself
with the Corsican Mafia, managed to get back on Blofeld’s trailandgot involved with a beautiful woman... This new edition also
features an exclusive introduction byOHMSSBond star George Lazenby, a ‘Bond in Books’ article, and a series checklist.