One
of the few Woodstock-generation rockers whose
late career didn't rely on reunions and re-issues, Neil
Young in the '90s earned
the title "Godfather of Grunge", along with a new
generation of followers. From his early days with Buffalo
Springfield to his 1970s heyday with his band Crazy Horse, Young's plaintive voice and raw guitar earned him success with pop
tunes, protest songs and even
country ballads. After a
series of experimental and commercially unsuccessful records in the '80s, Young returned to raw-edged rock and roll, making him a hero to bands like Nirvana and Pearl Jam.
Young is a
model train
enthusiast.Extra credit: Copyright 1998-2006 by Who2?, LLC.
All rights reserved. More on from
Fact Monster:Neil Young - Neil Young singer; songwriter; guitarist Born: 11/12/1945 Birthplace: Toronto, Ontario, Canada From ... Neil Young - Starring Neil Young, Emmylou Harris, Ben
Keith, Spooner Oldham, Rick Rosas Neil Young: Heart of Gold
- Biography of Neil Young,
Renegade rock star Neil Young - X-Z “Weird Al” Yankovic Yanni Trisha
Yearwood William Butler Yeats Dwight Yoakam ... X-Z - Nicolette Larson
country/pop singer Born: 7/17/1952 Birthplace: Helena, Montana Larson rose to pop ... Nicolette Larson Buy it at :amazon.com Warner
Brothers This Note's For You Harold Melvin brass jazzier
Michael Jackson
MTV MuchMusic MTV Video Music Award for
Best Video of the Year Young also contributed to that year's CSNY reunion (1988) and CSNY played a few benefit concerts. Young, however, refused to book a full tour with CSN and the
foursome would not embark upon a nationwide tour
until
2000. American Dream [] edit 1990s - Return to country-rock roots was a mixture of acoustic and electric rock dealing with the
state of the U.S.
and
the world
in 1989, alongside a set of love songs and a
version of the
standard "On
Broadway." "", two versions of which bookended the album, again caught the mood. Some say it became a anthem during the fall of the , a few months after the record's release.
However, most
Germans don't remember the
song being
related to the unification, understandably so, since
the lyrics are not about political repression. Like 's "", the anthemic
use of this song was based on largely ignoring the
verses, which evoke social
problems and
implicitly criticize American government policies. In
mid-1989, record executive conceived and produced a
tribute album to Young's
songs called
released on his
label. Bridge Concerts,
Crazy
Horse and Solo Acoustic shows are
reviewed.
09-24-2000, Desert Sky Pavilion, Phoenix,
Arizona 2009
Australia &
New Zealand
Freedom of Speech: Crosby Stills Nash & Young Tour
Prairie
Wind 2005 Nashville, TN Ryman
Auditorium concert review
from August 18-19, 2005: by a fan named Karen Schwarz. "A
Prairie Wind Blows Through
Nashville"
VANCOUVER, BC - 3/2/99 -
HORDE
FESTIVAL review from Vintage Rock
by Kenneth Wait : Irvine Meadows,
CA - 7/17/97 "Just as the Horse are
breaking
full
stride, Neil jumps like a bucking
bronco into the
acoustic section of his set with what, as near as I can
tell, is an open letter to Stephen Stills to
put their first band back together. It also seemed as
though Dewey Martin may
have been in attendance as Neil
addressed him personally.
'Hey Dew!
This note's for you.' From Hank
to
Hedrix
to horseshoes,
man -- Neil should know better than to try to sedate a
crowd that he spent half the set trying
to get
pumped. Take my advice, open the show with the acoustic set (like you did in the 70's), and you won't lose the attention of half
the drunks in the crowd. My ear drums, however, did
appreciate the downtime. Sorry.
You need to to watch this
movie. upgrade
your Flash Player Think you already have an up-to-date
Flash player? . Try again Gov't Mule w/ Dave
Matthews Cortez the KillerSong
Christmas Jam at Asheville
Civic
CenterVenue
Asheville, NCLocation For the past 19
years, has been melting faces for charity
at his annual to benefit (). Warren
Haynes Christmas Jam Habitat for Humanity
donate online
Here's a clip
from the 2006 show, a cover of with special guest — a
semi-reprise of Warren's appearance
with Dave Matthews Band in Central Park 2003 (video below). Gov't Mule Cortez the Killer Dave Matthews The sold-out 2007 Christmas Jam featured G Love, Frampton, Hornsby, and more. Visit
Asheville
Citizen-Times
for a . The
alone is worth the click. Brilliance. review of the show and some videos
comment
thread Cortez the Killer
originally
appeared on the frequently overlooked album . Zuma by
Neil Young & Crazy Horse Props to for posting this video.
Funkamedic Bonus Video: Warren with DMB in Central Park, 2003 Sorry. You need to Flash to watch this movie. Young s influence, importance and inspiration within the music scene derive in
part from
his longevity
because of a
career spanning more than four decades. His first album was released in 1966 and his latest in 2008. 's influence on Young has been
so obvious that the former once
lambasted: " bothered me every time it came on
the radio ... and I'd say, 'Shit,
that's
me. If it sounds like me it might as well be me. (...) It
seemed somebody
else
had taken my
thing and had run away with it, you know, and I
never got over it. Maybe tomorrow". The Dutch guitar virtuoso described a
typical electric guitar solo by Young as the sound of "a
Belgian " in a
1994 TV documentary, adding that it
somehow became more palatable when one saw Young's
grimace
to accompany it . Lynyrd Skynyrd Sweet Home
Alabama
Phish Pearl Jam Nirvana Grunge
Kurt Cobain Eddie Vedder experimental rock Sonic Youth
Radiohead Bob
Dylan Heart of
Gold
[37] Jan Akkerman vibrator [38] The Australian rock group
attribute their group name to their love of Young.
Powderfinger based band recorded a version of Neil's in ,which surfaced at the b-side the their "Our Age" 7"in November 2008. The members of the have occasionally played shows
under the
name Horsey Craze, singing Neil Young songs. In early 2006,
they released a vinyl only split-album with The Unintended. Release "Time Fades Away" A collection of Neil Young' music, his song
lyrics,
CD and concert reviews gathered over
the years. Reviews of Neil's
music
include album and CD reviews, concert reviews, and film
reviews.
Young's lyrics are
fascinating to attempt to decipher their meanings providing
nearly
limitless interpretations as evidenced by the fans
analysis of the song . Powderfinger Neil Young Discography
A Neil Young album and CD discography which includes Buffalo
Springfield, Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, and Crazy Horse bands among
others. There are 46 major
albums on which Neil has recorded up through 2003's
Greendale. Key albums are linked to more extensive details and reviews.
Neil Young FAQ Here are
some Frequently Asked Questions and answers to Neil
trivia.
Many of the standard
questions like "What's the
meaning of 'Powderfinger'" song lyrics?, "Can
Neil really out
jam
Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page?, "Were Lynyrd
Skynard and Neil Young friends or enemies?", and "What song did Kurt Cobain quote in his suicide note?" and lots more. Phish took Young up on his offer to headline the Bridge School
Benefit (where Young joined Phish for
renditions of "Helpless" and "I Shall Be Released." Phish, however,
declined
Young's later invitation to be his
backing band on a 1999
tour.
Phish Farm Aid [30] [31] The decade ended with , another
reunion with Crosby, Stills and
Nash. The subsequent tour of the
United States and
Canada with
the reformed super quartet was a huge success and
brought in earnings of $42.1
million, making it the
eighth largest grossing tour of 2000. Looking Forward Young's next album, (2000), contained a number of understated songs with personal lyrics, which was promoted through a mini-tour of
solo acoustic shows. This style was continued in (2002), an album of love songs dedicated to his wife, Pegi. Silver & Gold Are You Passionate? [] edit In the aftermath of 9/11
Young's
2001 single "", was a tribute to the victims of the , and the passengers and crew on in particular. At the "" concert he performed
"". In 2002, named Neil Young in
their list of the "50 Bands To See Before You Die." Let's
Roll September 11, 2001 attacks
Flight 93
America: A Tribute to Heroes John
Lennon's
Imagine Q magazine (1977)
American Stars 'n Bars is the name of a 1977 unreleased
album
by , and also of an from that period which is claimed to be of that album.Chrome Dreams Neil Young acetate Jimmy McDonough's supports the claim that is indeed a bootlegged
acetate with said title. A document that accompanied the
acetate (which Young's archivist has denounced as a
fake) gave the
impression that Young had
officially given
as
the title,
inspired by
rumours in the press of a new album with the same title.
Young is quoted as saying "What
really was,
was a sketch
that drew of a grille and
front of a '55 Chrysler, and if you turned it on its end, it was this beautiful chick...I called it ." (McDonough) Writing in , Alexis Petridis opined that the album "could
have been
Young's strongest album of the 70s".
Although
has never had an
official release, a number of unofficial versions have been released.Shakey: Neil Young's BiographyChrome Dreams [1] Joel Bernstein
Chrome DreamsChrome Dreams[David] Briggs Chrome Dreams
The Guardian [2] Chrome Dreams
[3] On , , Neil Young released a new
album entitled .
October 23 2007 Chrome Dreams II [4] Contents Release "Time Fades Away" Often imitated, but never duplicated, Neil Young's unique
musical songwriting and playing style has influenced a
generation of artists from
Booker T. and the MG's to Pearl Jam to
Wilco. From to , to , rockabilly to heavy
metal, blues to synth, a musical genre label
will never apply
to Neil and his music. An observer once wrote
that Crazy
Horse bandmate
"Poncho" Sampedro referred to Young's
musical polygamy as "a fact of life."
alt-country grunge punk
alternative "Young has always been a lone wolf - a musical chameleon, who changes his musical style and his band as often as most people change their shirt." Here are links for special
pages
on Thrasher's Wheat on Neil's music, career, and
influence. Neil Young Albums
Over the course of Neil's long career
stretching back
to the early 1960's and his work
in Canada with The Squires, through the 70's, 80's, 90's,
and into the 21st century,
he has produced major albums
which both directly and indirectly shaped the music of
generations. With
over 40 albums with bands
including The Buffalo Springfield, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, and Crazy Horse, Young has never been easily categorized with influences ranging from folk, rock, punk, ,
country, blues, and synth.
grunge Neil Young Concerts Rolling Stone's Paul Nelson writes on the Boarding House shows in San Francisco, CA in 1978: "In the
manner of the best of the traditional blues singers, Neil
Young seems totally alone on stage in a way that almost no contemporary
performer ever does. Missing were some great tour
favorites such as I Believe In You, Mellow My Mind, Winterlong, Bad Fog Of
Loneliness, and World On A
String. I can't say that I
have actually listened to this
much, nor will I probably listen
to it a great
deal in the future. But I did very much enjoy listening to
Road Rock Volume 1 today. Mike -
Expecting To Fly Specific concerns may be found on the . See Wikipedia's for suggestions.or style may not be appropriate for Wikipedia tone talk page guide to writing better
articles (February 2008) by The Stills-Young Band
Studio album Released
(1977) American Stars 'N Bars is an album credited to "The Stills-Young Band" but is a de facto collaboration between and , released in September . The Stills-Young Band recorded the album
and began
a tour in 1976 prior to the album's release, but Young dropped out of the tour when he grew bored with the project, forcing Stills to complete the concert tour solo. The band was together
from July
through October of 1976. Outside of Stills and Young, the
other members of the group came from
Stills' solo band.Long May You Run
Stephen Stills Neil Young 1976
Contents [] edit Collaboration The title track, the
album's first
single, was an elegy for Neil Young's hearse, his first
car. The album
stemmed from a desire by both
Young and Stills to pick up where they left off with their -era guitar
explorations. cohorts and got wind of
the
project, and
"Long May You Run" briefly
became a CSNY album. But before long, Young and Stills
decided to wipe Crosby and Nash's vocal harmonies from
the album tracks in their absence
(ironically, Crosby and Nash were
busy putting finishing touches on
their own duet record.) Crosby and Nash were livid when they found out, and it would be eight years before the quartet even
considered
working together again (Crosby, Stills and Nash would
regroup in 1977 for and tour.) 1948
Buick Roadmaster
Buffalo
Springfield CSNY David Crosby
Graham Nash an album [] edit Track
listing Tracks 1, 3, 5, 6 & 8
written by . Tracks 2, 4, 7 & 9 written by . Neil Young Stephen Stills
"Long May You Run" 3:53 "Make Love to
You" 5:10 "Midnight on the Bay" 3:59 All of this reads better than it appears on the screen, however, where an otherwise fine concert is continually interrupted by laboriously miming
"roadeyes" and other cuteness.   Mr. Young, who directs the film under the rather coy pseudonym of Bernard Shakey, further limits
its appeal by extremely grainy and underlit footage. And
the
Palladium, as rock's principal rock concert hall in New
York, is
likely to attract more rock fans than
film buffs.