An appraisal of real estate is the
valuation of the rights of ownership, the appraiser must define the rights he intends to
appraise. The appraiser does not create value, the appraiser interprets the market to arrive at a value estimate. As the appraiser compiles data pertinent to a report, consideration must be given to the site and amenities as well as the physical condition of the property. The answer is "Yes", but. The "but" is: you are only covered for the perils insured against in your Homeowner's Policy. For
broader coverage during a move, consult with us. Your possessions are automatically covered at your new home for 30 days.A. Q. Are your home possessions insured while moving? ^ Back to list But the decision on whether to write such a loan remains up to banks, which would have to be
willing to take a loss on the existing loans in exchange for avoiding an often-costly foreclosure. Q: Who is eligible? A: Eligible borrowers must have spent
more than 31 percent of their monthly incomes on their
mortgages as of March 1, 2008. The troubled loan must have originated no later than Jan. 1, 2008, and be on the borrower's primary residence. And the
borrower's income must be verified.
Q: When does the program start? Area Forums Brief Description: Area forums are meetings
held in a locality, often held by the local council. Often the meetings are attended by local councillors, together with senior representatives from the local authorities, the
Police, Primary Care Trusts and
other key local organisations, to debate key topics and answer residents' questions face-to-face. . Description: The Area Forum workshops are normally run in the evenings. The session is chaired
by a local Councillor. FHA Certified Appraiser - Tacoma, Seattle, Bremerton, Olympia Washington Appraisals Call Now for in Western Washington: FHA Certified Appraisals 253-988-7178 Or fill in below and your FHA approved appraisal started now: Name: Property located in or near: Phone:
Residential Real Estate Property Appraiser Residential Services
Northwest 6201 Pacific Ave C-2
Tacoma WA 98408 253-988-7178
toddgrier@comcast.net is a certified property appraiser meeting all
FHA / VA home loan appraiser guidelines, and is a leading provider of real estate appraisals in Western Washington. The real estate appraisal office is located in Tacoma, WA, on Pacific Ave. The closing department notifies the closing attorney of the approval and verifies all closing expenses. The
closing attorney then
schedules a time for the borrower to
sign the loan documentation. At the closing the borrower should: Bring a cashiers check for your down payment and closing costs (made payable to you to be signed over at the closing). Personal checks are normally not accepted over certain limits (usually $1000). Review the final loan documents. Make sure that the interest rate and loan terms are what you agreed upon. By
offering on-line appraisal
ordering, coupled with automatic report status updates and electronic delivery of the final product, I am able to eliminate the run around and phone tag hassles associated with this process. And since this process saves me money as well, I can keep my rates competitive with the other appraisers in the Juneau area.   Highest-Quality Appraisal Reports Courses cover the
core building curriculum. Start a new career in Home
Inspection or enhance your real
estate knowledge for business or personal investing purposes. Builders, engineers, real estate investors and individuals
wanting to learn more about residential construction have benefited from these courses. National Association of Home Inspectors (NACHI) Housing Inspection Foundation (HIF) Courses offer extensive guidance on all aspects of construction and mechanical systems as well as what you should expect during
inspections.
Complementary Home Inspection
professional reports are provided to all students in electronic format. I have lived in Alaska for over 10 years and have a thorough knowledge of the Juneau market.  I have appraised in Southeast Alaska and I am aware of the questions that underwriters typically have for this market
- is a view really worth that much? is it really in an avalanche area? Before you decide to sell your home, there are several decisions to be made. First and
foremost:
"How much should it sell for?"  But don't forget there may
be other equally important questions to ask yourself such as "Would it be better to paint the entire house before we sell it?", "Should I put in that third bathroom?", "Should I complete my kitchen remodel?"  Many things which we do to our houses have an effect on their value.  Unfortunately, not all of
them have an equal effect. Online Directory of over 8 million business contacts—from managers and dirctors to VP and C-level Company information for millions of companies including data on A-1
Appraisals & Estate Sales All records include full name,
title, postal address, hard-to-find email address and
telephone number Fresh and accurate
contact data maintained by over 400,000 members Search
for key decision makers by company, rank, industry, department, geography and more All the contacts you need at A-1 Appraisals & Estate Sales as well as contacts at Related Companies There is
currently no information for a1estatesales.com in Jigsaw Company Wiki Know something about this a1estatesales.com? Click here to update the wiki! Home inspections should also highlight the positive aspects of a home. In fact, many of the home inspector's observations or recommendations help to dispel home purchaser anxieties, and provide useful repair suggestions. The home inspector's service to the purchaser is primarily one of education. The goal of the inspector is to
provide the purchaser with a better understanding of the physical condition of the home in order that they can make a
well-informed decision. It is also the inspector's role to keep his findings in perspective for the buyer. If you ask too much it may never sell, asking too little throws away hard earned equity. A
Market Analysis can show current selling prices for similar properties to help you find a asking price reflecting the current market and your own needs. Many factors affect the current market price. Use your Free Market Analysis as a tool to help find where your property fits into the real estate market today! You can select the property type, such as Condos, Multi-Family,
Single-Family, e.t.c., using the drop down "Property Type" below.
Knowing your RI house value will set a solid foundation for your home selling price.For
Home Sellers:For Home Buyers: Home value in Rhode Island Why you need your home's value in Rhode Island Why sellers need a home value estimate Understand what
buyer
agents are expecting to see Get the most selling profit with a proper listing
price Be one step ahead of the buyers See your home from the buyer’s prospective Why buyers need a home value estimate Know if a seller is offering a house at average market price
Bankruptcy Condemnation Discounted Cash Flow Modeling Foreclosure Insurance Valuation Machine & Equipment Assets Partnership Dispute Litigation Support/Consulting Services RD Clifford Associates provides you with experienced experts who can testify with clarity and credibility on the business issues and situations being litigated, on relevant financial practices and theory, and on their own accurate analysis of the claims for monetary damages.litigation support
Litigation/Arbitration
Valuations Divorce Settlement Consult Estate Settlement Consult Expert testimony The state search page lets you slect a county, then provides additional search criteria for residential
or commercial appraisers, and/or by city. is currently
seeking qualified appraisers for our
directory. If you are a licensed real estate fee appraiser or know one, please click on the "" button or send us an email."The
Real
Estate Industry's Largest & Best Internet Database Of Real Estate Appraisal
Companies & Appraisers" (Since we are talking about your money here, the risks of not knowing how to properly qualify and
negotiate
are too great to ignore or leave to chance!)6.
Understanding
and
helping the buyer obtain financing, removing
contingencies, and closing the sale. (You need a strategy to avoid and eliminate potential problems in escrow, which can undermine your sale!)7. The better you understand and systematically apply these seven steps, the better the results you will get. Of course we are available 7 days a
week in
the
unlikely
event
that
should you have an emergency. Some builders mark up their prices so that they can negotiate down to the number that they require. Others will charge at whatever the market will
bear. Still
others will undercut prices on certain homes because of a cash flow
crunch. These methods create doubt and misgivings thereby creating
questionable pricing for all neighboring homes. We will give you personalized information for your particular appraisal need. Just tell us your situation and we will make suggestions. Quick turnaround time: Typically one week or less from the date the request is received. If you've
chosen to
receive a copy of your appraisal or consulting report via the Internet (EDI), you'll receive it within MINUTES of its completion.Prompt
response to your initial inquiry: When it comes to appraisal and consulting, "One size
does NOT fit all!" In consultation with your REALTOR , you can decide whether a professional home stager is needed to help improve your home's appearance for open houses.Spruce Up the Faux Pine Paneling: CMA A competitive market analysis is a detailed report that compares your home to similar
properties, with regard to
location,
design,
and
enhancements.
Appraisal
Your REALTOR may recommend that you hire an appraiser. Typical
costs are
$250 to $500, according to the Appraisal Institute .   Value versus price Your home's value is determined by how much a capable buyer is willing to pay. Once the report is complete, I can publish a summary page of the appraisal to my website (with your permission, of course). A unique
webpage URL is created for your property address that you use in all aspects of
marketing your home to potential buyers. Your webpage is displayed as a beautiful Flash-animated listing brochure just like what actual real
estate agents use to market
their
listings.
Your webpage will also include:
You know your home better than
anyone. And you know what features to highlight and what features you might want to downplay. Inspect the vehicle, unit, equipment or other property within 48 hrs Email a status
memo or completed file to the adjuster/company
representative
within 48
hrs Deduct overlap in sheet metal,
mechanical and refinishing Apply betterment/depreciation with detailed explanation Research lowest cost LKQ, reconditioned and competitive pricing on parts Reach an agreed price with your PPO or owner's choice of Repair Facility Email computerized estimates± and closing reports to the adjuster/company representative Take a minimum of 6 photos with contact points
utilizing the "Pocket Rod" Fill out the Total Loss Evaluation Form on all total losses
Secure salvage bids as requested The course gives you a step-by-step
process for staging a house. It takes you from the outside and moves you through the house room by room. Each room is covered with a comprehensive checklist so everything is easy to follow. You will be able to give a homeowner a complete action plan to get their home staged to sell
fast.
Virtual
tours on every listing Floor plans Multiple color photographs and slide shows Full color home brochures on and off-line MLS listing Individual showings to interested buyers Constant communication and feedback Stress-free management of the entire process Feature your home on your towns website Advertising in local newspapers Feature your home on HGTV Exposure on our industry leading website BetterHomesUSA.com Exposure on Realtor.com and Multiple Website system Property email alerts Email your home to thousands of homebuyers Home Staging service FirstImpressionhomes.com Feature home in HomesinYourTown Magazine Basic Appraisal Procedures A. Overview of Approaches to
Value B. Valuation Procedures 2. Collecting and Selecting Data 3. Analyzing 4. Reconciling and Final Value Opinion 5. Communicating the Appraisal 1. Geographic Characteristics of the Land/Site 2. Geologic Characteristics of the Land/Site 3. Location and Neighborhood Characteristics 4. Land/Site Considerations for Highest and Best Use 5. Improvements – Architectural Styles and Types of Construction D. Residential Applications III. Residential Market Analysis & Higest and Best Use A. Residential Markets and Analysis You can also select courses which
provide professional business and marketing advice to get your own
organization off the ground.  A summary of the is posted to assist you in understanding the minimum education, experience, and examination requirements established by the state regulatory agency, , for home inspection licensure in New York. New York State Requirements New York Home Inspector Licensing Board Send questions you may have to or call us at . education@area-ga.com 888-883-9220   Founded in 1990, we have consistently delivered high quality damage appraisals and excellent service. Our expertise extends over a wide range of property, and we can
assist you with most of your damage appraisal needs. PETERS APPRAISALS SPECIALIZES IN DAMAGE APPRAISALS & REINSPECTIONS FOR THE FOLLOWING: Autos • Trucks • Motorcycles • ATV's • Boats • Mobile Homes • Buses • RV • Tractor Trailer Movie Studio Equipment • Custom Trailers • Heavy Equipment • Specialized
Equipment
We provide to Insurance Companies, Self-Insured Businesses and other
organizations.
Knox County Ohio 7 Essential Steps to Selling Success
Home
Selling
Guide 7 Essential Steps to Selling Success Knowing and using these 7 essential, yet simple steps is crucial to achieving the best deal possible - whether you decide to sell your home yourself or hire a professional real estate agent to help you. Although a comparative market analysis is not as accurate as a house appraisal, it can give you a good idea of house values, home prices and what your home may sell for in today's real estate market. Your home is worth a lot to you, Let us find out the value of your house, Thank you for visiting, and tell a friend about us! All Material © Value My House - Helping home owners find out free housevalues information easy. To
contact me for an inspection quote, or to schedule an inspection or onsite consultation, please use either the "Request Form" or "Contact Information" link at the left.     I have done work as a consulting expert on Bob Vila's website in the "Expert Advice" section were I held the highest
under the following headings: Carpentry and Construction
Foundations Appliances & Tools Flooring
Insulation & Roofing The terms of all home offers, counter offers, withdrawals and terminations may not be disclosed by Help-U-Sell real estate agents without the prior consent of both the Buyer and Seller. The Seller decides whether the Seller and Broker is able to disclose that another competing offer has been received, contemplated, or is being negotiated. The home buyer's Broker will disclose this information to the Buyer if it is received. was created by an act of the Texas Legislature in 1991 to license, certify and regulate real estate appraisers in Texas under state and federal laws. Texas Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board (TALCB) The Texas
Appraiser Licensing and Certification Board (TALCB) is a statewide professional organization formed in 1977, with a current membership of over 350 inspectors and related professionals. - Stay up to date with our bi-monthly newsletter, which includes helpful real estate resources and on-going updates of homes recently sold in your area. Neighborhood Newsletter - Take
advantage of our real estate glossary, real estate guide, recommended links, and other resources. Real Estate Resources MLS Home Market Check Property Value Reports By completing this brief form, you gain access to Multiple Listing Service (MLS) data to: Learn what sold within 30 days or less and for how much. You can view photos of homes on the market to better assess 'the competition', and Understand how your home competes on price with similar homes. The Second Reportshows the following information on up to 10 comparable properties: The high, low and average selling prices of the comparable properties in your immediate neighborhood, the average loan amounts of
the
properties, average assessed values, average square footage, average number of bedrooms and bathrooms, the average age of the properties and the average acreage, frontage and lot square footage comparisons. The Third Reportshows:  The latest selling price of each comparable property, the date of the sales, the address of each property and other comparable details and
features of each property. The Fourth
Reportis a map showing the location and address of each comparable property used in arriving at the current value of your property. Appraisers also provide opinions in litigation cases, tax matters and
investment
decisions.
    Gathering data is one of the primary roles of an appraiser. Data can be divided into Specific and General. Specific data is gathered from the home itself. Location, condition, amenities, size and other specific data are gathered by the appraiser during an inspection. General data is gathered from a
number of sources. Local Multiple Listing Services (MLS) provide data on recently
sold homes that might be used as comparables. Area Forums
concentrate their conversations on the topics of particular concern to local communities in the area. . The outcomes are reported to Area Forum members either on an individual basis or via an Area Forum newsletter, which is sent out to members after each meeting. The Minutes from
each meeting are normally available online. This appraisal site has been created for those needing VA loan appraisal, , VA Appraisals, FHA Appraisals, home valuations, real estate valuation for divorce or probate, standard mortgage appraisals, and real estate appraisals in the Federal Way, Kent, Auburn,Renton, Burien,Sea Tac,Sumner, Bonney Lake, Buckley, Rochester,
Olympia, Lacey, Roy, Seattle,
Bremerton, Silverdale,Port
Orchard,
Belfair, Aberdeen, Ocean Shores, McCleary, Chehalis, Centralia,
and their local areas in King, Mason, Thurston, Kitsap,
Lewis, Grays Harbor, and Pierce County, Washington areas.FHA home loan appraisal damage appraisal services With Peters Appraisal Service you can feel confident that your appraisal assignment will be handled by an experienced appraiser. We achieve superior results through a high quality work product and
service standards that assure a properly adjusted claim file or
loss. to submit your damage appraisal assignment, or we can take your assignment over the phone, by fax, or by email. Please check our for detail. Use our online form contact page
  You will always come in near the top of a search for a property appraiser in your
area.Priority
Listing 1 primary county for 1 year. The top property appraiser
spot in your county and city, every time. The header
listing is always the first listing shown. The "Header"
spot is
the
premium location in the website which
receives the most activity. Some search engines report their top listings, first on the
list,
get 2.5
times more click throughs than the second listing below.Header Listing This will ensure
that the homebuyer Buyer understands the process, the
possibility of competing offers, and what the Seller's options are. All decisions about how offers will be presented, negotiated and ultimately accepted, are made by the home Buyer and/or Seller, NOT the Help-U-Sell real estate broker. Help-U-Sell real estate agents will communicate, advise and keep their respective client informed of all offer activities. Provides
University of Washington law students education concerning
expert
witness testimony Creates and provides education to mortgage companies, appraisers, agents and colleges Provides appraisal
reviews for the State, nationwide lenders and attorneys Testifies before the Senate and House of Representatives on appraisa lissues Was a co-author of Washington's "Mortgage Brokers Practices Act" Richard was quoted by See "Appraisers: Message from a fee appraiser" Washington State Department of Liscensing . The Appraisers at American Home Appraisals are among the best in
the area. If
you need high quality appraisals or the services of
experienced and professionals... this is the firm to turn to.tested We look
forward to providing you
great service for another 25 and beyond.Phoenix Appraisal Network   Residential Real Estate Appraisals for Phoenix Metro Area homeowners, Realtors and Mortgage Lenders.   We coordinate the best
appraisers in the Phoenix Metro Area so our clients
receive appraisals in three business
days or less!We specialize in: How many times have you been promised a quick appraisal with no results? We offer two great tools to help you find information about a particular property. Our Property Value Estimator will give you detailed property information along with a value for the
property and a
range based on comparables in the areas. Our product is designed for existing residential properties from single family homes to high rise condominiums. Reports will not be available for new construction, multi-family or mobile homes. reports are what lenders and real estate professionals use when they need fast, accurate property valuations backed by proprietary data, modeling expertise, industry knowledge and long standing reputation only Homeprice brings to the market. We
respect
your privacy, and will never sell, trade, or share your information with anyone.  If you are thinking about selling your home
in the near future, or if you are simply interested in finding out how much your home is worth on today's market, we will
do a free Comparative Market Analysis of your home upon request. The public record for your property may not be up-to-date, so be sure to include your current
information for living space in square feet, number of
bedrooms, number of baths - full &
half, and garage spaces if any. With a network of over 2,000
experienced
appraisers, we provide appraisal services in all 50 states and
over 3,000 counties. Here you can obtain information about
our company, get a price
quote for an appraisal, order an appraisal, learn about employment
opportunities, or correspond with us via e-mail. Benefits of
working with World Appraisal: Speedy delivery of reports with our
EDI capabilities Ability to
reach a World Appraisal representative by phone or email Managers are reviewing performance and making notes as well.Performance Phase: Employees are given an opportunity near the end of the
performance cycle to provide feedback on the preset goals, competencies and objectives to deliver to their manager. This is when the manager will document feedback on the employee
performance as well. The system allows senior managers to
review
all submitted documentation and sign off before the actual review is complete.Assessment Phase: Manager and employee sit down together to discuss the year in review. To obtain the maximum loan
amount, a business owner would need to provide a certified appraisal report. back to top Insurable Value It is undoubtedly
necessary for a business to purchase liability
insurance in
the case of an event such as a fire or a theft. However, in most cases of an event, the business has to rely upon the value given by the insurance company, because the business owner did not obtain
certified values of the business assets.
In many cases, the insurance company will write a check for far less than the true replacement cost simply because the
business owner could not provide an independent and substantiated value(s) to the contrary. Richard D. Storgaard Dick Storgaard is a Washington State native, graduate of Washington Military Academy, and retired in 1992, at the rank of Colonel from the US Air Force. Prior to his Air Force retirement, Dick Storgaard entered real estate as a "next career". That led quickly into the appraisal
field,
and that, along with managing the business, has remained his continuous occupation since. He is a member of the and the . He is also a Life Member of the Air Force Association, the
Reserve Officers Association and the Semiahmoo Yacht Club. We work with businesses, attorneys, bankers, estates and individuals and can tailor auctions to your needs. Our experienced and bonded team of professionals work closely with the seller through all phases of the auction to
prepare and present items so as to
maximize sale price. We can deliver the necessary equipment and services to ensure a successful sale. Professional Team of Auctioneers and personnel: needed for preparation and operation of the auction including office staff, catalog staff, auctioneers, ring men, clerks, cashiers, and check out staff after the auction. A comprehensive marketing program: Includes direct mail, advertising and internet targeting thousands of qualified contacts. From selecting your REALTOR/sup>,
to title company, mortage lendor, home
inspector,
and home
appraisal,
a strategic approach can help you protect what is often your largest financial investment your home. The following resources are not intended to be an exhaustive home buying checklist, however, we think
they will provide a solid foundation for success in the
home buying process and answer many of your home buying questions.
Loading...
or REALTORS/sup> IN GREATER KANSAS CITY: A
professional REALTOR /sup> can be a tremendous asset
when buying a home and can be an excellent resource for referring
other resources involved in the homebuying process. QUESTIONS ABOUT HOME LOANS: Visit Borrowing Basics All Dirty appraisals as reported to Congress in regards tAsk for a Designated Appraiser.o the leading factor in the Nation Wide Mortgage Fraud epidemic have been done by NON designated appraisers.    How can Lending Institutions prevent Dirty appraisals? By requiring only Designated Appraisers, this was normal Banking requirements up to the last ten years. 9:51 am est For
any comments and suggestions
for posting on our Blog, please visit our " Contact Page." any link to view more details on any item of interest. Note that all links on
this page take you to another page within this website, therefore, using the on your browser will bring you back to Quick Facts. Many links on other pages, however, are to the website of the school, restaurant, hotel, etc. listed. These links will open another window on your computer screen. For
instance,
the state of Missouri requires
2500 hours spent under the apprenticeship of a certified appraiser and
120
hours of classroom learning, plus you must pass the test before you can become a certified residential appraiser yourself. As a home buyer or seller, the appraiser chosen for you or by you should be an unbiased 3rd party with no vested interest in the value of your property. governmental organization, research reactors, operation, design and siting of nuclear power plants,
radiation, waste and transport safety. Effective
implementation of these Standards is essential for ensuring a high level of safety, therefore the Agency must also appraise the compliance of Member States with these Standards to ensure the Standards are being applied. The services and appraisals provided by the Department of Nuclear
Safety and Security are carried out whenever there is a request from the Member State. Normally you do not have to be a member of an Area Forum to attend but you are encouraged to join so that you can be keep updated about meetings and what happens as a direct result of your input. . Used For: Area
Forums provide their members with: information on Council services and
Council policies affecting the local
area. the opportunity to give your input on issues that affect your neighbourhood. I still work as a construction
superintendent as well as doing home inspections and
construction consultation Additional Training: Licensed home inspector certified by the state of North Carolina and InterNACHI  
Professional
construction supervision course by the Associated General Contractors Safety training certified by the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) 15+ years experience in CAD drawing Here are some other links you might find useful: Q: But doesn't this provide an incentive to NOT pay your mortgage, if you're barely keeping ahead of bills and are underwater on your house, so you can qualify? A: No. If your situation deteriorates enough, the bank
may reject any possible new loan. "Turning yourself into a financial basket case
is not going to work," said Dan Seiver, a finance
professor at . "If you turn into a complete deadbeat, the
servicer is going to just foreclose
and dump it."San Diego State University   The loss of a loved
one is a difficult time in life and settling an estate from a death, or
probate, often requires an appraisal to establish Fair Market
Value for
the residential property involved.  The ethics provision within the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) binds us with confidentiality, ensuring the fullest degree of discretion. ESTATE LIQUIDATION back to top Business Valuations Book value is not accurate and it
almost always differs from Fair Market
Value. If the machinery/equipment is not valued properly, the entire business valuation is skewed. Lots of liability! back to top Buy/Sell Agreement When assets from a business are sold, fixed and tangible assets often must be valued separately from the business' intangible assets. back to top Financing/SBA Loans Businesses often use their tangible assets as collateral to
support loans. Although the following organizations do not provide appraisals
themselves, they each publish a directory of their members. Always seek an appraiser with an expertise in the type of artwork you own. Appraisers listed in these directories can be found by state and city. You may also find appraisers listed in the Yellow Pages of your local phone directories. One of
the most gorgeous treed settings near the Kenyon college campus and within a short walk of the Kenyon Bookstore.  This home is much larger than it looks and features an impressive room addition with an enlarged family room plus a multi-room home office suite.   For more detailed information, the current price, interior photos and to view a virtual tour of this Knox County Ohio home please visit 103 West Woodside Drive, Gambier Ohio Thursday, February 12, 2009 by Sam Miller What takes time is analyzing how unique features contribute to or detract from what otherwise would be a property's market value. Let us know up front when you order your report if there are
unique features of the home or surrounding area — for example, it's had a recent addition put on, it's subject to zoning
restrictions, it's prone to flooding. These are things we'll find out on our own anyway, and knowing them as soon as possible makes your report arrive more quickly.Are you letting us know up front any details about the property that might make it unique? My commitment is to my clients, I will help you
achieve your dreams by finding the Issaquah area home
you are looking for in the area you wish to reside in.  I've been
helping
hundreds of people since
1974,
and
would be
proud to be of
service to you! Please take a few minutes to look through my Issaquah real estate website. Be sure to take advantage of the many features offered to you.
                    Property can't
appraise if set to high When it comes time for the lendersappraiser to come out to appraise the property, the properties that have recently
sold (commonly known as comps) are what he will use to help determine the value of your house. If there is an (and there
usually is), you can see how important it
is to comply with the
price range a CMA shows.
Our appraisals are used for a variety of purposes, including
purchase price allocation relating to
FASB 141 and 142, bankruptcy proceedings,
gift and estate tax planning,
litigation support, and mortgage lending. Of particular
interest to organizations requiring real estate appraisals for
purchase price allocation, Appraisal Economics can also provide the intangible
asset analysis and the
machinery/equipment
appraisals
that are
required for the allocation. It is not uncommon for real
estate appraisers to determine market value in the course of performing the appraisal.