The Butterflies and Larger
Moths of Lincolnshire and South Humberside J.Duddington and R.Johnson M.Ed. Lincolnshire Naturalists Union 1983 The Butterflies and Moths of Lincolnshire (The micro-moths and species review to 1996) Rex Johnson M.Ed. Lincolnshire Naturalists Union 1996 All photographs and text by Kevin Wilson Poplar Hawk-Moth  ( )Laothoe populi    The most frequently seen of all the reserve's hawk-moths and may be on the wing from late May until early August. The peak period though is July, when moth-trapping sessions can produce 5-10 on a single night. Generally only one generation is produced each year, but where conditions are favourable the moths may breed more frequently. Residual insecticides are effective against these pests and a variety are
available for sale, some with
cypermethrin as the active
ingredient,
others which are based on
vegetable extracts. Where a wet spray cannot be used, fumigation products can offer a highly successful alternative, particularly in lofts or store rooms, while aromatic red cedar wood makes a natural alternative to traditional moth-balls for wardrobes and drawers.
Butterfly can easily be found in the butterfly garden. Butterflies dont live on Venus, butterfly fly around the flowers on earth. If you like these animals, you can make yourself a butterfly tatoo, possibly a blue butterfly for best effect. You can find here some butterfly wallpapers but not a butterfly chair. Butterflies are delicate little creatures. The tongue (proboscis) is an obvious feature on the pupal case. Some musculature is present during the pupal stage; if picked up or disturbed, the posterior end of the pupa will wiggle (this
can be quite disturbing to students if they are not
expecting it). The pupal stage in Manduca sexta lasts
approximately two weeks. The
adult hawkmoth is a large, nocturnal moth. In flight, hawkmoths can easily be mistaken for hummingbirds because of their large wingspan. Hawkmoths are generalist nectar feeders, and feed through a very long proboscis, which is curled up in a spiral when not feeding. Butterflies and moths undergo complete metamorphosis in which they go through four different life stages. - A butterfly starts its life as an egg.Egg - The larva (caterpillar) hatches from an egg and eats leaves or flowers almost constantly. The caterpillar molts (loses its old skin) many times as it grows.Larva - It turns into a pupa (chrysalis); this is a resting stage.Pupa - A beautiful, flying adult emerges. There is no growth during
this stage. This adult
will continue the cycle and
reproduce.Adult You have viewed
all seven resources permitted in this limited
trial period. You may continue to browse
the site, but to view, download,
share, and save resources, you must register
now.Registration is simple, safe, and free. For more information: Learn about our online or review our . Professional Development Courses, Privacy Policy contain keratin, a protein that the Clothes
moth and carpet beetles , another fabric pest, can digest.         Clothes moth larvae are cream colored and grow to up to 1/2" in length.  All moth larvae possess three pair of legs just behind the head, but also have a set of short, stubby feet behind those legs called prolegs.  Prolegs define the larvae as a moth (and not a beetle).   A majority of requests are for monarchs. Who can do this? Anyone with the time to attend to these critters. It is necessary to tend them daily. Unlike other kinds of farming, you use a Q-tip instead of a shovel. It's excellent work for families, or for the
elderly. Watching your butterfly crop can be
as relaxing as watching an aquarium.
Who is doing this now? - images of common species of lady beetles (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) found in the agro-ecosystems of the Indian region, and their natural enemies. An annotated checklist of the Indian fauna and an illustrated key to common Chilocorus species of India are also available. Coccinellidae of the Indian Subcontinent - by Joseph Kunkel. Includes cockroach FAQ Cockroach Home Page - CD-ROM containing 60 different images of cockroaches commonly encountered or found in culture. Images are provided in three different sizes and resolutions: print quality, display for large audiences and web-optimized. Cockroach Images CD-ROM Includes rap sheets. Most Wanted Bugs - Hosted by Mississippi Entomological Museum. Plates for both living moth photos and also for spread specimens, for more than 5,500 species found in North America. Collaborative effort among those who photograph moths with more than 200 contributors. Moth Photographers Group - photographs and comments on the various moths appearing in John Himmelman's yard in Connecticut Moths in a Connecticut Yard Larvae or caterpillars have voracious appetites and a single larva can eat a whole leaf in a single day. Larvae can take from 10 days to two months to become big enough to enter the pupa stage. Inside the pupa the larva slowly transforms into an adult butterfly. This can take from eight days to
several months depending on the species of
the butterfly and the time of the year. has three stages: eggs, nymphs, adults. Nymphs are like baby adults without wings. Insects such as dragonflies, grasshoppers, leaf hoppers,
cockroaches and true bugs go
through incomplete
metamorphosis.Incomplete Metamorphosis table of
contents Common names Separate alphabetical indexes are generated for Finnish and English common names. For English example, see . And for a Finnish example, see . These indexes include only species from which a common name is entered into the system. names indexed
under R names indexed under R Hummingbird Nectar Mix 1 part sugar to 4 parts water. Boil this solution for a few minutes. Pour cooled mixture into your hummingbird feeder. Store the rest in the
refrigerator. Hummingbirds are
attracted to red when foraging. However, do NOT use red dye in your nectar mixture!!! It is not clear if this has harmful affects on hummingbirds. If your feeder does not have red on it, tie a red ribbon to it. Why are They Called "Butterflies" By Rick Mikula We received the following
letter from Melody Dean with
the most commonly-asked question: My biology teacher just gave us an assignment to find out where the word "butterfly" came. He wanted to know why we call butterflies "butterflies" since they don't look like flying butter and they don't eat butter. While searching I came across your
website and figured you might
be able to help me. I'd be
grateful if you could e-mail
me your thoughts. Thanks, Melody Dean ... and our answer was ... Barthell, J. F., T. L. Griswold, R. W. Frankie, and R. T. Thorpe. 1997. Osmia (Hymenoptera:Megachilidae) diversity at a site in
central coastal California. Pan-Pacific Entomologist 73:141-151. [Barthell, Frankie resident]. Barthell, J. F., D. M. Bromberger, H. V. Daly and R. W. Thorp. 1999. Nesting
biology of the Solitary Digger Bee Habropoda depressa (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) in urban and island environments. J. Kansas Entomological Society. 71(2):116-136 Sanitation, inspection, and removal of infested material are all very important parts of an integrated approach.I am using the traps, but I still see insects. What else can I do?   All lures should be good for at least two years if kept at room temperatures or below.How long will the lures last if kept unopened? Stealth Shelf Traps or NoSurvivor Traps will be sent with your order. Manufacturers choice on the trap. From mid-August through the end of the summer is when the fall webworm is noticed on walnut and other hardwood trees.  This insect is easy to identify by the loose, gray, silken tent spun by a cluster of caterpillars feeding on the leaves at
the end of the branch.  The
caterpillars are tan to yellow in color, hairy and up to 1 inch long.  Fall webworm tents start small, but the caterpillars enlarge the tent every few days as they grow and consume the leaves within the tent.  By the end of the summer tents may be 2 to 3 feet long and enclose the entire end of a branch.  The old gray webs hang on the trees most of the winter. Other Films used Kodak Echtachrome, Kodachrome,  KodaColor, some very old pictures are on 110 mm and even on glass (pre-film)! Cameras: 1964 Exakta (a favorite), Pentax from  1980s, Edixa, Exakta 400 mm Tele-lens (see : ) Kamat's Cameras Manuscripts and captions are still (year 2001) typed on 1959 Remington Over 200,000 pictures indexed on .
Very few are found over large areas
of the world, though there are some
that are found on many continents, especially some of the pest species. The one factor that is most important in allowing species to be distributed over a large area is the ability of the larvae to either eat a wide variety of foodplants or some foodplant that is incredibly widespread as well. Lime Hawk-Moth  ( )Mimas tiliae    Only twice seen on the reserve; the first in June 1983 and the next in May 1997. Contrary to it's name, this species will feed on English elm, alder and birch. All three species can be found in small quantities at
Gibraltar Point making
colonisation by the lime hawk-moth a possibility. one of the smallest moths in North America, the nepticulid moth, has a wingspan of 1/8 of an inch       in addition to their main food, nectar, moths drink water and the sap from trees although moths can see well in the dark, they find flowers mostly by using their excellent sense of smell on the lighter side, someone, somewhere, constructed a , apparently for sheer recreation GIANT MOTH       moths protect themselves from predators with a bad taste, by being poisonous, with bright warning colors, or by the use of camouflage Most moths are nocturnal but seem to be attracted to light (for example, a porch light or a fire). One reason is that
because moths are , they navigate, or find their way around by using the moon as a point of reference. Moths can become confused by any
other light source and they basically get "lost". As a result, they typically stay where they are, making it look like they are attracted to the light. nocturnal Indian Meal Moth The Indianmeal moth was given its name after an insect scientist found it feeding on corn meal, also known as Indianmeal. There is also a plain scientific names for all taxa (otherwise it is similar to the previously mentioned common name lists). list of lists Checklists The checklists are lists that include only the species recorded from Finland. These lists are not complete for every group. The most accurate one is the list. Again, there is also a for accessing all Finnish checklists (or partial lists) Lepidoptera top
level list PerhosetButterflies and Moths The source of this
data is from miscellanoues literature (old and new) of varying
quality, and often using
conflicting organizations. The
result is sometimes confusing and . At this point I'm only trying to get the taxa included.the organization here must not be taken as any taxonomic statement or study The addition of my records from over 20 years of light trapping is still at idea stage. I may end up using Java applets in this. However, some static graphs are shown from about 10 species. For example, see . (). He tries to make his photos artistic, rather than pure records. Even when the grass is wet, he can be seen on his knees trying to get the best angle. Having taken similar shots to others whilst behind the fence line at air displays, he now spends his time with aviation minded people helping them to enjoy Tiger Moth pleasure flights, and at de Havilland Moth Club events. He also loves taking photos of Yaks in formation, but that is another
story. His favourite
photographer is Charles E Brown.ABOUT THE PHOTOGRAPHER:  Pruning to remove webs when they are first noticed is one possible
control.  Prune and discard the webs you can reach and disregard the rest.  Because caterpillars remain in the tent, time of day is not important.  Insecticides labeled for caterpillars can be used for control but they must be applied with sufficient pressure to penetrate the silk tent and reach the leaves within.  For more information on insecticides please see “” Insecticides in the Home Landscape and Garden. Updated 08/15/2005 - 3:21pm Want your insect identified? If you are an Iowa resident, you can or call us at (515) 294-1101.
Free images of americana, Uncle Sam, Liberty Enlightening the World, Statue of Liberty, maps, geography, continents, planets, astronomy, solar system, Petra, architecture, Roman Coliseum, ancient architecture, leaning tower of Pisa, Eiffel tower, beauty, women, Coney Island, cultures,
bullfighting, Barcelona, Spain, The
Starry Night, art, Vincent van Gogh, people, Sitting Bull, Native Americans, American Indians. Image Invision.net Free images of military, aircraft, American Presidents, people, animals, agriculture, food, nutrition, fruit, tobacco, health, MLK, Martin Luther King, African Americans, american history, history, Giza, Egyptian Pyramids, ancient architecture, architecture, Houdini, Pompeii, Vesuvius, Uncle Sam, F-15 fighter Jets, jets, Kennedy Family, cows, farm animals, apples, peppers, skeleton,
skeletons, scales,
weight, fitness, sphinx, and Egypt. Moths can be
a serious pest especially in large
numbers, when they can be very destructive. Although the adults have a
very short lifespan, typically
only living for two or three weeks, the caterpillar stage last for up to six months  and it is these hungry, growing grubs that do the damage. Protecting your clothes, upholstery and fabrics may often involve a mixture of prevention and cure. Stella Crossley (updated 17 February 2009) Most of the Caterpillars which we have found are the larvae of moths. Moths far outnumber butterflies both in numbers and species. In Australia, there are over 10,000 named species of moths compared with only about 416 species of butterflies. Added to this, many moths have yet to be collected and named, whereas very few butterfly species remain to be discovered in Australia. The common names of many moths are derived from the behaviour and appearance of their caterpillars. This situation is unlike that for butterflies, the common names for which are usually derived from the adult forms. Trout and other fishermen value the casemaker as bait for sport fish.Order Trichoptera Caddisflies : . Ephemeroptera: Greek Ephemeros - short-lived, pteron - wing, referring to the short life span of adults; they survive only a few hours or at most a few days. They eat nothing, nor do they crawl or walk. They only fly and mate within dancing swarms, usually in late afternoon or evening. These bacteria have an effect on a large number of caterpillars, especially on young specimens. When the
caterpillar is fretting, it devours the
bacteria, which produce spores and protein crystals, so that the intestine wall becomes damaged and the metabolism disturbed. The jaws of the caterpillar get paralysed. Photo: caterpillar died as a result of Bacillus thurigiensis Free Americana pictures of Rosie the Riveter, Babe Ruth, baseball, athletes, sports, Sioux, Native Americans, Native American Indians, Indians, American Indians, people, Uncle Sam, Betsy Ross, Migrant Mother, Grant, Lincoln, Washington, American Presidents, food, pie, pies, apples, agriculture, shepherds, dogs, horses, maps, texas, state quarters, South Dakota, war bonds, and the Statue of Liberty. Botany Stock Photography.com Free botany stock photography of flowers, plants, botanicals, Teddy Bear Cholla Cactuses, Pawnee Montane Skipper Butterflies, butterflies, White Meadowfoam, Vase with Twelve Sunflowers by Vincent Van Gogh, Thale Cress, Jack in the Pulpit Flower, Orchids, Prickly Pear Cactus, ferns, ladybugs, insects, Salt Cedar Leaf Beetle larvae, caterpillars, and Pseudananas Sagenarius. Version Francaise
Versione Italiana Version en Espanol
Deutsche Version Butterfly Pupae
(Chrysalides) Here at El Bosque
Nuevo, we our proud of our commitment to the preservation
of tropical rainforests. 
Our butterfly pupae are
raised on our farm, located on reforested lands, and we will continue to support reforestation efforts in the future. Butterfly Pupae (Chrysalides) Price List (USA$) Click here for
our print-friendly latest price list (Adobe PDF format). has four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Insects such as beetles, flies, ants, wasps and butterflies go through complete
metamorphosis.Complete
Metamorphosis Egg Adult Click any of
the pictures to see them
enlarged. Since most adult butterflies
only live about two weeks the female mates the day she is born. The courtship ritual is a flurry of wings as the male entices the female to mate. Moths depend on pheromones to find each other on a dark night. - includes images, illustrations and animations of insects of medical importance Public Health Image Library - Pictures of Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies). Ray Bruun Photography - European Butterflies. Two PhotoCDs. CD 1: Nymphalida, Papilionidae, Pieridae. CD 2: Lycaenidae, Nemeobiidae, Danaidae, Satyridae. Schmetterlingsfotos auf CD - Non-commercial site with many photographs and articles on South African insect life South African Insect Photography - pictures and information about spiders found in Queensland, Australia Spiders in Australia - pictures of over 100 species and information about spiders Spiders in Northwestern Europe