NYC Transit keeps New York moving 24 hours a day, seven days
a week, as its subways speed through
underground
tunnels and elevated
structures in the boroughs of
Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and
the Bronx. On
Staten Island, NYC Transit's
Staten Island Railway links 22 communities. Motor-bus
service on the streets of Manhattan
began in 1905. Stop by for pony
rides, to watch a cow
being milked, or to learn how
wool is dyed
and weaved!thth Rocky Mountain
Balloon
Festival The Rocky Mountain Balloon Festival can be
found in Chatfield State Park in Littleton, Colorado from August 22 through August 24. The festival includes an incredible powered paraglider fly-over, a car show, plenty of live music and, of course, hot air balloon shows and rides! The site develops and republishes accounts of local history and invites submissions to the site. Historians and genealogical researchers are
offered a free web
page to publish their research. Web visitors
can also join a western New York discussion
group at this site or visit the on-line store to
purchase books and
photographs.The Buffalonian
Central New York Library Resources Council But the
greatest value of the MTA lies in its beneficial
impact on
the New York region's
economy and quality of life. New York ranks near the top among the nation's best
cities for business, Fortune magazine has written, because it
has what
every city desires. A workable mass transit system.
POUGHKEEPSIE, NY — Dutchess
County Tourism and Vassar College are pleased to
announce the opening of an official Dutchess County Tourism Information Center in the historic Main Building of Vassar College. The Tourist Information Center will play a valuable role in the community, helping to create awareness about the county’s many tourism assets for both students and their families, the thousands of annual visitors to Vassar’s beautiful campus, as well as the college's more than 1,000 employees. Is your mouth watering for a great-tasting meal?  Before checking in for the night, celebrate the region’s rich agricultural
bounty at Twist (), a casual
American restaurant located in Hyde Park, or
Terrapin () in nearby Rhinebeck. 
www.letstwist.com
www.terrapinrestaurant.com About DCT | | | | | (C) 2008
Dutchess County Tourism. All rights reserved. Dutchess County
Tourism, 3 Neptune Rd., Suite
Q-17,
Poughkeepsie NY 12601 Tel:
845/463-4000 or 800/445-3131
Advertise
with Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Home  
fter having
successfully marketed a wide range of full-scale
projects during
four different decades, Mid-Hudson Marketing draws
expertise from a
broad business perspective
and years of
hands-on experience. The firm began in downtown Poughkeepsie, New York in a small office in the GSA building adjacent to the Civic Center on Main Street. Travel back roads and byways, from city sights to country pleasures. From the mansions of a bygone era, to the splendor of the Shawangunk & Catskill Mountains, in the mid-Valley you will find a rich diversity of things to do. Tour great estates and gardens, explore museums and wineries, pick apples and take scenic hikes. 5770 Black Swan Club, Tivoli, NY, 845.757.3777 , Staatsburg Annex Antiques Center, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-2843 Broadway Antiques & Collectibles, Red Hook, NY, 845-876-1444 Cider Mill Antiques, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-2599 Lafayette House Antiques, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-6024 Lightly Seasoned, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-1828 Rock
City Relics Antique Center, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-8603 Jacaruso
Studio, Red Hook, NY, (845)
758-9244 Pig
Farm Photos & Framing, Red
Hook, NY, (845)758-5554 Ron's Snowmobile Sales & Service,
Rhinebeck, NY, (845)758-5637
Riding, boarding, and training
Willowbrook
Farm, Riding, boarding, training,
Clinton
Corners, 845/266-4522 Calypso Farm Equestrian Center:
boarding, lessons, training and children's summer riding
program.
www.room-availability.com Search Engine
Key Word
Text: Are you looking travel information or a Bed
& Breakfast, Inn or B&B in
New York
City, Hudson Valley, Canandaigua, Cooperstown, Otsego,
Dutchess County, Hyde Park, Rhinebeck, Finger
Lakes, Ithaca,Tompkins County, Lake
Placid, Essex County, Saratoga
Springs,
Skaneateles,
Kingston, New Paltz, Ulster County, Woodstock, NY or need to
find a B&B to stay at? If
there's any type of information that you need to help make your move successful,
please or you can complete the
located at the bottom of this page, and I will send you the
information that you request.
contact me Relocation form
LET ME HELP YOU MAKE A SMOOTH
MOVE! Airports serving our Area: Stewart International
Airport – Newburgh, NY (SWF)
Westchester County Airport – White Plains, NY
(HPN) 7 - Cruger Island (Hudson River National
Estuarine Research Reserve) - E, HMF 60 acres on the Hudson
River in the Town of Red
Hook.  Bay,
estuary, tidal marsh, mudflats, tidal swamp, woodlands.  An
excellent
area for all kinds of birds,
with waterfowl and shorebirds most plentiful.  Osprey,
Northern Harrier, Marsh Wren,
Least Bittern, Virginia Rail.  Best in early
spring and late summer; also
excellent for
observing ducks on the river in late fall.  Directions: 
Sports and Fitness
Welcome to the Dutchess County,
New York website, your community on the internet.
Here you will find valuable
information about Dutchess County, New York, including coupons, restaurants, shopping, hotels, local businesses, transportation, real estate, public services, dining, arts and entertainment, spas, salons, schools, sports, automotive, banking, shops, healthcare, relocation, travel, tourism, and vacations in Dutchess County, Amenia, Arlington, Beacon, Beekman, Brinckerhoff, Clinton, Crown Heights, Dover Plains, Dover, East Fishkill, Fairview, Fishkill, Haviland, Hillside Lake, Rock City, Hopewell Junction, Hyde Park, La Grange, Milan, Millbrook, Millerton, Myers Corner, North East, Pawling, Pine Plains, Pleasant Valley, Poughkeepsie, Red Hook, Red Oaks Mill, Rhinebeck, Spackenkill, Staatsburg, Stanford, Tivoli, Union Vale, Wappinger, Wappingers Falls and Washington. It was purchased by five
Dutchmen in
1688 from the Lenape Indians.
Some of their descendants
still live there. The oldest
house dates from 1701, but most were built with
the railroad (1851) or in the 1880s. Join us for a
guided look at this community
survival and adaptation. Friday 3:30-5:30 Walking Tour of
Rhinebeck (cash bar) Kline
Commons Terrace Friday
6:00      Cocktails     This official I Love NY
website represents a unique
private-public partnership between Hudson Valley
Network,
Inc., The Gold Standard and Hudson Valley Tourism, in
close collaboration with and support from
the regional tourism
industry.
Copyright © 2008 by Hudson
Valley Network, Inc., all
rights reserved. Please review HV/Net's "" to understand the
uses we make of the information that we gather
here and on our other
Internet sites. The county
was named in honor
of Mary of
Modena, Duchess of York,
second wife of the future King
James II. History Prior to
the Anglo-Dutch incursion, what is
today Dutchess
County was a leading center for the
Wappani. They had their council-fire at
Fishkill Hook and also held
gatherings along the
Danskammer. In 1683, the Province of New York
established its first twelve counties,
with Dutchess County being one of them. Be sure
to visit our new feature. You can find a room in
your destination town... or look for one up to
30 miles away. In
all 50 states. It's easy. It's
secure. !
Book a Room Book a Room
Click here for the NY Visitors Network lodging members from
across the state. SEARCH
Searching our site is
as easy as ABC.
   24 Hour
Front Desk    Room
Service    Free Local Calls    Free Parking
   Handicapped Accessible Rooms    Non-smoking Rooms
   Indoor Pool    Heated Pool    Meeting Facilities
   Business Center Facilities
   Laundry/Valet Service    Safe
Deposit Box    Air Conditioned
Rooms    AM/FM Clock/Radio in Rooms    Coffee Maker in Rooms
   Data
Ports in Rooms    Hair Dryer In Rooms    Iron/Ironing
Board In Rooms    Microwave Oven In Rooms
   Refrigerator in Rooms    Voice Mail in Rooms    Cable
Television    In
Room Movies    Hot Tub on site    Fitness Center on site
   Other Features:
Elevator, Located in the Village
of CoventryFeatures and Amenities bed and
breakfast, tourism, lodging, inns,
innkeeping,
associations, accommodations, travel, B&B Getaways, Bed
and Breakfast Getaways, online B&B directory, Bed &
Breakfasts, innkeeping, innkeepers, bed and breakfasts,
b & b, bnb, inns, lodging,
travel, Country Inn, hotel,
romantic
getaway, weekend getaway, romantic weekend getaway, vacation
getaway, romance, accommodations, Bed & Breakfasts, B&B, romantic, B&B, B&B's, B & B, B and B, B and B's, bed & breakfast, bed and breakfast, bed & breakfast, bed and breakfasts, inn, inns, innkeeper, innkeeping, vacation, vacations, travel, traveling, tour, tourist, New York City, Hudson Valley, Canandaigua, Cooperstown, Otsego, Dutchess County, Hyde Park, Rhinebeck, Finger Lakes, Ithaca,Tompkins County, Lake Placid, Essex County,
Saratoga Springs,
Skaneateles,
Kingston, New Paltz, Ulster County, Woodstock, NY" Is it any wonder that tourism is the number two industry in Dutchess County? Tourist dollars make profits for tourism and tourism-related businesses and sustain payrolls and jobs for local workers in the tourism industry. To ensure that Dutchess County stays positioned at the top of the national and international list of
tourist destinations, DCT
applies an
aggressive
marketing strategy to attract tourists. Her
photographs bring back memories of a favorite place or a
time of joy and happiness.  They take you to a places
that you would like to be, a season that warms and
cheers you, or a peaceful
setting that
soothes your soul. She also writes poems to go with many of the photos.  The photographs can enhance your home or office, be a special gift for various occasions or be a remembrance of a special place. [] edit By train , . This is the last station stop on Hudson Line commuter trains out of New York City. Express service between Poughkeepsie and Grand Central Terminal is
about 1 hour and 40 minutes, local service
considerably longer. Local service is also available to
other
Metro-North commuter stations.
counties:
Dutchess Rockland Orange
Ulster Greene Westchester
Putnam Columbia county
towns: 
Poughkeepsie
Rhinebeck
New Paltz Woodstock
Kingston Manhattan
-- city town village bicycling: bicycle bicycling bike bikes bicycles bicyclist cycle
cyclist cycling touring riding
rider riders routes: route routes ride rides tour
tours turn cue sheet sheets
map maps Where to Look
News Exploring FAQ About Us
more