The inside surfaces of the Quantum moulds are polished to a mirror finish, hence the components produced are of such high quality. Whether for factory built cars, or home build kits, all fibreglass panels are fully machine polished to showroom standard before leaving the factory. I don't want to source an old car - I want to build from as many new/clean parts as possible. We supply a choice of both new and second hand components to complete any Quantum. Is there a Quantum Owners Club? Yes. You can view the Quantum Owners Club's website at ">www.quantumowners.com http://www.quantumowners.com/ Soon, the demand for auto parts outstripped the supply of derelict cars. Israel began buying up failed auto manufacturers and added new parts to his inventory. To welcome more
customers, Israel added a retail store. The Warshawsky Company grew right through the Great Depression, when few people could afford new cars or even new parts. By 1934, the company had a larger store
and a successful wholesale catalog distributed exclusively through Chicago-area gas stations and mechanics. It also had a new employee with bright, new ideas: Israel's son, Roy Warshawsky. Quantums are designed with the home builder in mind, so only a very basic
toolkit is assumed when preparing the kit. For instance, all holes over 10mm in diameter are drilled, and many fixing locations are scribe-marked into the mould - this ensures that every single car has tiny location markers in exactly the correct position. What insurance group would a Quantum be in? As with most specialist cars, there is no formal insurance grouping, and you may find that your usual broker is unsure of
the car. However, there are a plethora of brokers who specialise in insuring specialist vehicles such as classic cars, 15+ year old sports cars, motorbikes and kit cars. Cars parts are removed and stored in our auto parts warehouse for immediate sale. All second hand car parts are inventoried so when you call asking for used BMW engine parts or a gearbox for example we can immediately tell you if we have the right spares in stock. As a family owned business operating for over 30 years, Car Transplants have chosen to be at the forefront of clean car recycling and disposal. One of our main aims has always been to dispose of the old image of the car breakers yard or all-purpose scrap yard. The ad produced a flood of response and the JC Whitney Catalog was on its way to becoming the do-it-yourselfer's favorite best seller. When Israel died in 1943, leadership of the company passed to Roy. As a second world war cut back the supply of civilian goods, the demand for auto parts soared. By 1947, the retail store occupied an entire city block at 1900-1924 South State Street. The Warshawsky Company retail outlet was now the biggest automotive department store in the world -- "everything automotive." The post-war Baby Boom years spurred more growth on the catalog side of the business. The Quantum parts department carries a huge stock of parts, from minor fixings to entire engines, and anything we don't stock can usually be
arranged for next day delivery. How will my local garage service or repair a car as unusual and specialised as a Quantum? Although your local garage may not have seen a Quantum before, a look under the bonnet, together with a brief explanation from yourself, will quickly give your mechanic his bearings. To get started, please click on the link and select the appropriate application. After you have identified the particular car engine you are looking
for, complete your contact information and follow the submission instructions. Your engine request along with your contact information will be distributed to used engines stores and suppliers including salvage yards, surplus warehouses and auto part stores specializing in car engines. ENGINE LOCATOR If you are a supplier of Japanese engines, import engines, German
engines or Domestic /
American engines, please
consider joining our
network. VEHICLE DISPOSAL
  With
two distinct operations, Car Transplants based in Cheshire are ideally placed to provide everything you need to get a quality car on the road at the lowest possible cost. Our contracts with the leading insurance companies means we have a constant supply of salvage cars of all descriptions and in all conditions. Vehicles with only superficial or moderate damage are sold as . Vehicles which can't be made roadworthy are dismantled in our scrap yard for . Our car breakers operation processes over 10,000 vehicles a year, dismantling each one for all the usable cars parts. Licence - Scrap Yard & Motor Salvage Operators Scrap Yards No person may carry on the business of a scrap metal (recycling of old or damaged metals) dealer unless
they are registered to do so by their local authority under the Scrap Metal Dealers Act 1964. Registration as a scrap metal dealer lasts for 3 years and must be renewed before the expiry date if the registered person wishes to carry on as a scrap metal dealer. In addition to registration, the dealer must keep at each registered scrap metal store, a book detailing all scrap metal received at that place and all scrap metal either processed at or dispatched from that place. The MG Car Company of NZ has such staff Stocks are comprehensive, Spanning from Pre war M.G. through to the M.G. R V8. Suppliers of the full range of MG parts from their large stocks. If you are interested in parts and spares for any of the:- pre-war MGs from the . Or Post-war models such as the MG Car Co of NZ Ltd sells parts. No more scrambling round a bleak scrap yard,
trying to find and rip out the spare parts you want from rusting wrecks! Car Transplants now enjoys an enviable reputation for both quality and service and believes itself to be the market leader in the North West of England. As one of the UK's largest dismantlers of late model vehicles direct from insurance companies Car Transplants are definitely worth a call. OVER 10,000 VEHICLES RECYCLED EVERY YEAR Forget the old image of the traditional breakers yard. Here at Car Transplants
you will find clean, modern premises with good facilities and most importantly ATTENTIVE KNOWLEDGEABLE STAFF. Car Transplants Motor Spares Chester Road (A51) Hurleston, Nantwich, Cheshire, CW5 6BU Tel: 01270 627919 or 626266 Fax: 01270 625464 Email: After completing two forms relating to the source of the parts for the car (i.e. the chassis/shell from Quantum and the
rest from the car
whose logbook (V5) you will need to present at this time), you are issued with the first tax disc for the car. You can drive the car as soon as you have had the number plates made, and receive the new V5 from DVLA Swansea a few weeks later. If your car is factory built, this will have been done for you. ...so, what is Single Vehicle Approval? All cars must be Ministry approved. Production cars are 'Type Approved', involving crash testing etc.     The TC Midgets were the big sellers in the post-war era, establishing the marque'5 reputation in the crucial US market, setting the stage for the MGA and
its successor the MGB of 1962. By the
late 1960s, however, MG had fallen victim to corporate  politics, as other cars from the British Motor Holdings (later British Leyland) stable took precedence over the MG product. Yet this is by no means the end of the story: in the early 1990s the Rover Group made the welcome decision to revive the MG as a sports car; fifteen years after the last MGB rolled off the
production line. The
new K-series engined MGF heralds the marque's jubilant comeback. It is an offence not to register if your business meets one or more of the following criteria, your business is engaged;- Wholly or partly in the recovery for re-use or sale of salvageable parts from motor vehicles and the subsequent sale
or other disposal for
scrap of the remainder of the vehicle concerned Wholly or mainly in the purchase of written-off vehicles and their subsequent repair and re-sale Wholly or mainly in the sale or purchase of motor vehicles which are to be the subject (whether immediately or on subsequent re-sale) of any of the activities falling within a) or b) Apply Online - Scrap Metal Yard Registration Requires the latest version of
Adobe Reader for best results Alternatively you can call the licensing staff on01268 294280 and request the necessary forms and advice to be sent to your address. Motor Salvage Operator Licence The Vehicle (Crime) Act 2001 and the Motor Salvage Operators Regulations 2002 require salvage operators to register with the local authority, identify purchasers and vendors, keep records, and gives the police the right to enter without a warrant. If you are looking for an engine that is not listed on our application list, please go directly to the and complete the car or truck engine specs manually. Looking
for Hard-To-Find Engines? BUYING TIPS: USED AUTO ENGINES Used Car Engines N' Used Truck Engines If you are looking to buy a quality used engine we can help you find one. First you have to complete the engine request form including year, make, model, engine type, engine size, fuel delivery type, and aspiration type (turbo or non turbo). WE ARE READY TO HELP YOU FIND YOUR CAR / TRUCK / PICKUP ENGINE! TO FIND YOUR ENGINE! CLICK HERE Buy direct from the engine supplier that stocks the engines and save the middleman markup
you'll pay otherwise Connect to hundreds of auto n' truck used & surplus engines sellers with just one search Find the engine you need at the price you want without wasting hours searching the Web and submitting multiple requests Save phone calls cost1. 2. Hablamos Espanol (Bilingual Spanish/English) We Accept Credit & Debit Cards  has been providing customers with quality used auto parts since 1980. We offer our parts at fair, competitive prices, and use the Hollander ADP" system for easy part finding. We are a licensed and insured dealer and wholesaler that can also buy scrap metal. Bring in your scraps by the truck or by the piece and we will pay you the most competitive rates in the area. You can pull the auto parts yourself or let our experienced mechanics pull the
parts for you. So choose and enjoy the great prices on these quality used auto parts. We are conveniently located 20 minutes from anywhere in the city of Memphis.Quality Parts at Great Prices Midtown Auto Parts & Salvage The parts car is for it, and for a soon to be designed “boot” couch. The third car is a 1972 MG Midget that is the priority car to get restored. I’ve owned one or more of the cars
since 1987. The MGBGT was my daily driver until I found the rust and the bad repairs. I tore it apart only to find that life, my wife & kids, and a gazillion other priorities got in the way of restoration. The Midget has a similar story, not running when I found it, sound, minimal rust and none where it mattered. That was 10 years ago and I’m now ready to tackle the project. This blog is meant to be a history of the restoration, in word, pictures, and maybe some video. I’m not the most serious person in the world so I’m going to inject my own brand of humor into this restoration tale. I hope you will enjoy this project, encourage me in it, and if you’re Bill Gates, will drop me some serious dough so that I can get the bodywork done. I can handle everything else. Hey Bill, I’ll give you a chance to ride in it if you fund the project. You can’t drive it though, I’ve heard you don’t do that well. Published in: on February 1, 2009 at 10:01 AM