First, historians think about where, when and why a document was created.
They consider whether a source was created close in location and time to an actual historical event.
Historians also think
about the purpose of a source. Was it a personal diary intended to be kept
private? Was the document prepared for the public? Until 1989 the position of Architect of the Capitol was filled by Presidential appointment for an indefinite term. Legislation enacted in 1989 provides that the Architect is to be appointed for a term of ten years by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, from a list of three candidates recommended by a congressional commission. Upon confirmation by the Senate, the Architect becomes an official of the Legislative
Branch as an officer and agent of Congress; he is
eligible for reappointment after
completion of his term. , the 10th Architect of the
Capitol, was the first Architect to be appointed under the procedure established by
this legislation. In the United States, most terrorist incidents
have involved small extremist groups who use terrorism to achieve a designated
objective. Local, State and Federal law enforcement
officials monitor suspected terrorist groups
and try to prevent or protect against a suspected attack. Additionally, the U.S. government works with other countries to limit the sources of support for terrorism. A terrorist attack can take several forms, depending on the technological means available to the terrorist, the nature of the political issue motivating the attack, and the
points of weakness of the terrorist's target. Bombings have been the most frequently used terrorist method in the United States. Other possibilities include an attack at
transportation facilities, an attack against utilities or other public services or an
incident involving chemical or biological agents. In the mid-19th
century, a Romantic spirit was expressed
in many competing stylistic
revivals, for example the Greek Revival with symmetrical pillared forms
and the Gothic Revival with pointed, crocketed and
asymmetrical forms. The 19th century
witnessed an extraordinary rate of urbanization. Despite the absence of any form of public regulation, distinct districts
appeared, including elegant blocks of row houses,
multifamily tenements and lodging
houses. Business districts
were transformed by an architectural innovation: the skyscraper. Beginning in the 1880s,
architects and engineers in Chicago and New York
began to experiment with new
framing systems to achieve greater height. Burning of Washington British War of 1812 Main
article: United States
Capitol dome The building was expanded dramatically in the 1850s. The original timber-framed of 1818 would no longer be appropriately scaled. Thomas U. Walter was responsible
for the wing extensions and the "wedding cake" cast-iron dome, three times the height of the original dome and 100 feet (30 m) in diameter, which had to be
supported on the existing masonry piers. Department of State as well as other US Government Agencies. OSAC currently encompasses the 34-member core
Council, an Executive Office, over 100 Country Councils, and more than 2,700 constituent member organizations, 600 associates and 5 US Government Agencies (US Agency for International Development, US Chamber of Commerce, US Department of Commerce, US Department of Treasury). Terrorism is the use of force or violence against persons or property in violation of the criminal law of the United States for purposes of intimidation, coercion or ransom. Terrorists often use threats to create fear among the public, to try to convince citizens that their government is powerless to prevent terrorism, and to get immediate publicity for their causes. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
categorizes terrorism in the United States as one of two types - domestic terrorism or international
terrorism.
Google Pack Software Get the power of Google on your desktop PCs! Google Pack
provides a
single installer for many essential PC applications from Google and other
trusted partners. These applications improve your browsing with increased speed and security, provide better searching
capability for the web and for your own PC and enable you to collect and organize your personal data, including photos. The U.S Agency for International
Development is the U.S.
federal government agency that implements America's foreign economic
and humanitarian assistance programs.
USAID's history goes back to the Marshall Plan
reconstruction of Europe after World War Two
and the Truman Administration's Point Four Program. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy signed the Foreign Assistance Act into law and created by executive order USAID. USAID-funded publications are
disseminated to the international
development community through the Development
Experience Clearinghouse U.S.
Army War College Strategic Studies Institute The Strategic Studies
Institute (SSI) is the primary research faculty of the U.S. Site search Web search Some graphics reproduced using Print Shop Deluxe, Broderbund Software, Inc. All Rights Reserved used by permission. The Classroom does not claim all descriptions of sites to be their own words.The Classroom  makes no promises or representations about the gadgets on this site as to quality. content or  performance   Google Adwords Google Adwords allows businesses to advertise on any number of sites, including Expo Central, regardless of the size of their budget. Ad campaigns can be set up to target based on keywords, geographical location of the visitor, and/or individual web sites. They handle the most
common sizes of ads and allow
text, image or video. Firefox with Google Toolbar Mozilla Firefox is a
web browser with pop-up blocking, tabbed browsing, and privacy and security features.
Although the does not contain transcripts of
committee hearings (which are published
separately), the Daily Digest does summarize committee
activities,
and provides lists of committee meetings scheduled for that day
or the next day, including the topic of the hearing and a list of
witnesses. At the end of the legislative week, usually on Friday, the Digest contains a section
outlining
the ”Congressional Program Ahead” with
details of upcoming floor and
committee schedules. The
designer of the most graceful early towers, Louis
Sullivan was America' s first great modern architect. His most
talented student was Frank
Lloyd Wright. In the 1930s, European architects who emigrated to the United States before World War II influenced the development of an austere, functional approach, supposedly anonymous and oblivious to the traditions of place. It came to be called the International Style. Perhaps most influential were Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Walter Gropius, both former directors of Germany's famous design school, the Bauhaus. Buildings in their geometric style have been both praised and
criticized. Between 1865 and 1870, Congress appropriated
funds for the construction of
the , placed all copyright
registration and deposit activities under the Library's control, and restored the Library's international book exchange. The Library also acquired the vast libraries of both the Smithsonian and historian , strengthening its scientific and Americana collections significantly. By 1876, the Library of Congress had 300,000 volumes and was tied with
as the nation's largest library.
When the Library moved
from the Capitol building to its new
headquarters in 1897, it had over 840,000 volumes, 40% of which had been acquired through copyright
deposit. The Strategic Studies Institute is a versatile, dynamic organization that identifies international security issues likely to affect the United States, its friends, and potential adversaries; analyzes national security issues and, through the timely publication of studies and conduct of conferences, informs Army leaders of policy options; and provides the U.S. Army with a source of ideas, criticism, innovative approaches, and independent analyses. Legislative Branch Dr.
Thornton's assignment was limited to designing and
supervising the construction of the new Capitol, under the direction of
the Commissioners of the Federal District and the President of
the United States. However, the role and responsibilities of the
Architect have changed and grown as additional
activities have been assigned
to the office by Congress. Today, in light of the widespread
activities under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, the administrative function competes heavily with the architectural and engineering functions of the office.
The people of the United States are the
rightful masters of both Congress and the courts - not to
overthrow the Constitution, but to overthrow the men who pervert the Constitution." 
Abraham Lincoln   "
Legislative BranchDefinition: "The Congress is the group of people who make the laws of a nation. The United States Congress is made up of
two smaller groups called the Senate and the
House of Representatives".Source: Thinkquest (The word "apotheosis" in the title means literally the raising of a person to the rank of a god, or the glorification of a person as an ideal; George Washington was honored as a national icon in the nineteenth century.) central group Six groups of figures line the perimeter of the canopy; the following list begins below the central group and proceeds clockwise: (38k), with Armed Freedom and the eagle defeating Tyranny and Kingly Power War
(37k), with Minerva teaching Benjamin Franklin, Robert Fulton, and Samuel F.B. Morse Science (37k), with Neptune
holding his trident and Venus
holding the transatlantic cable, which was being laid at the time the fresco was painted Marine If you have any additional questions, please contact Johnny's office at (202) 224-3643.Currently, mail delivered to the United States Congress is delayed due to extra precautions for safety concerns. Specific date requests should be made at least six
weeks prior to the date
requested. Please allow six to eight
weeks for delivery. Constituent Services This is your Senate office,
and Johnny and his staff stand ready to assist you with any
governmental problem you
might have. Henry's dismissal of Jewett in July 1854 ended the Smithsonian's
attempts to become the national library, and in 1866 Henry transferred the Smithsonian's forty thousand-volume library to the Library of
Congress. antebellum Smithsonian Institution Charles Coffin Jewett Joseph Henry [6] On December 24, 1851 the largest fire in the Library's history destroyed
35,000 books, about two-thirds of the
Library's 55,000 book collection, including
two-thirds of Jefferson's original
donation. Congress in 1852 quickly appropriated $168,700 to replace the
lost books but not for the acquisition of new materials.
Hallet suggested changes to the floor plan, which could be fitted within
the exterior design by Thornton. The revised plan was accepted, except that Jefferson and Washington insisted on an open recess in the center of the
East front, which was part of
Thornton's original plan. William Thornton Louvre Pantheon [11] [12] [13] [14] James
Hoban [15] [16] [17] The original design by Thornton was later modified by and then . The current dome and the and wings were designed by and , a German immigrant, and were completed under the supervision of .