Since then, Tauranga has become the
dispatch port for most kiwifruit exports, which means that the bulk of growers  those in the Bay of Plenty  do not have to transport their fruit long distances in refrigerated trucks to get it to port. Rise and fall In the late 1970s kiwifruit was hailed as a golden harvest because of the industrys explosive growth. The fruit of these cultivars are practically indistinguishable from each other and match the description of a standard kiwifruit given at the head of this article.Actinidia deliciosa
Sliced Golden Kiwifruit Gold Kiwifruit or "Hinabelle", with yellow flesh and a sweeter, less acidic flavour resembling a tropical , is a new Cultivar Group produced by the New Zealand , and marketed worldwide in increasing volumes. Vine is vigorous, precocious, productive. Petals do not overlap; styles are horizontal. Most exports to the United
Kingdom have been of this cultivar.'Abbott' ('Large-fruited')–a chance seedling discovered in 1920's; introduced in early 1930's. Fruit oblong, slightly broader than 'Abbott'; of medium size, with densely hairy, brownish-skin;
flesh is light-green, of good flavor. However, a limited amount of space may be available at the Saturday markets in Vallejo, Vacaville and Tracy for local artisans wishing
to sell crafts of their own design and creation.
PCFMA's mission is to establish and operate
community-supported certified farmers' markets and other direct marketing outlets that provide: viable economic opportunities for California farmers and food producers, local access to farm fresh products, support for local businesses and community organizations, and education concerning food, nutrition and the sustainability of California agriculture. Green (avocados, spinach, broccoli, limes, green peppers, honeydew, green
apples and green grapes) Health Benefits: a lower risk of some cancers, vision health, and strong bones and teeth. White
(onions, bananas, garlic, ginger, mushrooms, white corn, cauliflower, and dates) Health Benefits: healthy heart, and a lower risk of some cancers. Yellow/Orange (oranges, yellow and orange bell peppers, apricots, grapefruit, carrots, lemons, and pineapple)
Health Benefits: healthy heart, vision health, improved immune system, and a lower risk of some cancers. The groundbreaking findings by Norwegian scientists shows eating kiwifruit
each day cuts the amount of fat platelets being pumped around the body while also thinning the blood - reducing the risk of potentially fatal clots. The work, at the University of Oslo, showed that eating two or three kiwifruit a day for 28 days reduced the platelet aggregation response to the release of collagen in the bloodstream. Consumption of kiwifruit also lowered by 15 per cent blood levels of trigylcerides - free-floating fats which are a component of harmful cholesterol. Before describing kiwi fruit serving ideas, it is important to point out that kiwi fruits contain a substance, called "actinidin", which has a lytic effect on foods. This means that it can tenderize other foods such as salads and meat, and is the main cause of
the "latex allergy" (which often manifests with itching in the mouth for allergic subjects). It is generally a good practice to add kiwi fruit just before serving, to prevent actinidin from overly tenderizing other foods Surprisingly, the study found that while vegetables were not correlated with an improved resistance to the disease, fruits
containing high
amount of Vitamin
C,A and E (the most common antioxidant vitamins) helped significantly in protecting against ARMD. Anti Oxidant properties of Kiwi Fruit It is important to note that kiwi fruits contain a remarkable amount of Vitamin C, E and A. Vitamin C is a water-soluble antioxidant that has been proven to protect our body from free radicals, dramatically improving the health of individuals who consumed it regularly against all kinds of disease, from cardiovascular problems to cancer and obesity. The seeds inside are in a crown like formation, are small and edible, and around a white centre.   Storage Kiwifruit can be stored for long periods of time in a controlled atmosphere. Keep temperature at a constant 32° F (0°C) with a relative humidity of 90 a 95 %. At room
temperature the kiwifruit takes 3 to 5 days to mature. Display The ripened kiwifruit is slightly soft to the touch. When canned, kiwifruit become mushy and lose their color.kiwifruitkiwi [1] fruit egg Raw kiwifruit is also rich in the protein-dissolving enzyme actinidin, which is commercially useful as a meat tenderizer but can be an allergen for some individuals. Specifically, people allergic to papayas or pineapples are likely
to be allergic to kiwifruit also. Auckland cardiologist Professor Harvey White said while the study was a long way from showing kiwifruit actually reduced the risk of heart disease, it was "pretty interesting" and indicated the fruit could be a useful alternative to aspirin. Statistics New Zealand figures show
heart disease was second only to cancer as a major cause of death, killing more than 6000 people a year in the country. Price:   £3.99 Craig Potton Vineyards of New Zealand Calendar 2009Featuring vineyards and grapes from the major wine growing areas throughout New Zealand. Photographs from Kevin Judd, NZ's finest wine photographer. 304mm x 304mm    Price:   £9.50 Craig Potton NZ Pocket Diary 2009A compact engagement diary with 1 week per page, featuring 18 wilderness photographs from Craig Potton. 100mm x 155mm    Price:   £6.95 In a tough world market, many exporters competed to sell kiwifruit, driving down the price of the New Zealand fruit. Growers responded by lobbying government to regulate the export sector. Kiwifruit Marketing Board The New
Zealand Kiwifruit Marketing Board was established in 1988 and had monopoly powers to distribute and market kiwifruit everywhere except Australia. In 2000 it adopted the corporate identity Zespri International Ltd. Overseas growers So that it could supply kiwifruit year-round, Zespri began to represent some northern-hemisphere growers and gave them
rights to grow gold kiwifruit. Kiwifruits owe their name to a bird, native of New Zealand, named "kiwi", and actually in many regions of Europe, North America and South America, kiwi fruits are generally referred to as "kiwi" This fruit consists of a hairy, brown peel containing green flesh, with white pulp in the center, surrounded by black, edible seeds. The fruit has a sweet taste, similar to a mixture of banana, pineapple
and strawberry. Just as the New Zealand kiwifruit
industry was regrouping after the global overproduction crisis of the 1980s, a more severe price crash occurred when European kiwifruit began to enter the market around 1991. It was getting harder to sell to key European markets; in particular, Italian officials prosecuted New Zealand exporters for selling kiwifruit with high chemical residues. Kiwifruit growers had traditionally sprayed pests (specifically leafroller and scale insects) by the calendar. The biggest kiwifruit you'll find, grown for those who have big
appetites for healthy, nutritious
kiwifruit.Green Jumbo Kiwifruit Enjoy the big, fresh
taste of healthy green organic Kiwifruit.Green Organic Kiwifruit A new variety of kiwifruit, the product of natural plant breeding, similar on the outside but juicy and golden on the inside. It is after the vines go dormant that they are ready to be pruned.1.
DORMANT SEASON, BEFORE PRUNING   The way the vines are pruned will influence the next crop's yield in regard to both the number of pieces of the fruit that set and the size of that fruit.2. EMPLOYEES PRUNING   As winter turns to spring, the
warmer awakens the dormant kiwifruit vines which have slept the cold winter months away. The peel contains many nutrients, and can be eaten once the hairy bits have been removed by soft brushing Kiwifruits add a delicious "tropical" feel to salads, try it! A delicious combination can be made out of yogurt, strawberries and kiwifruit. Additionally, you can add bananas and pineapples Chicken and fish can be served with "chutney", made with sliced kiwifruit, pineapple and orange 22(2):111-114.W.V.
WismerJournal of Pain and Symptom Management F.R.
Harker, F.A. Gunson, K.L. Rossiter, K. Lau, A.G. Seal, R.G.
Lowe, and R. Beatson. 2005. "Identifying flavour targets for fruit breeding: a kiwifruit example." 141:93-104.Wismer, W.V.,Euphytica Hodges, D.M., , and C.F. Forney. 2000. "Packing line effects on storage attributes of fresh
spinach leaves." (accepted).W.V. WismerHortScience and M. Davy. 1999. "Olfactory capabilities of athletes participating in contact sports." The Australasian Association for Chemosensory Science, 1st Annual Scientific Meeting, Program and Abstracts, page 10.