A Southern Baptist preacher's kid fresh out of a Texas seminary, Warren believed God was calling him to move to booming Orange County, Calif., south of Los Angeles, to start a church. He and his wife held the church's first meeting in their living room in 1979, with one other family. Saddleback Valley Community Church drew 206 people to its first public service in 1980
and in 25 years had grown into the 20,000-member Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, Calif. His books, studied across
denominational lines, encouraged people
and churches to discern and be motivated by God's purpose for them, as opposed to guilt, anger, fear, materialism, tradition, finances, programs, buildings, and so forth. By 2005, he was publicly urging evangelicals to get involved in solving world problems, including poverty and AIDS. Rick Warren Biography / Clergyman Evangelist The Purpose Driven ChurchThe Purpose Driven
Life : Warren and his wife, Kay,
have three children... His
father, father-in-law, and great-grandfather all were pastors... His semi-autobiographical 1995 book includes an account of his promise to God that "I'd give
my entire
life
to pastoring
a single church if that was his
will for me." And catch up on interesting news with USA TODAY's Cathy Lynn Grossman. By Cathy Lynn Grossman, USA TODAY WASHINGTON  Could California pastor Rick Warren possibly be
everywhere at once? It sure seems like it. There may be no
escaping Warren's new campaign to stamp
his vision of civil Christian discourse and social action on world culture. You probably
just saw him, maybe in August when he interviewed both
presidential
candidates on
moral and social questions at his televised Saddleback Civil Forum. The
founder of Saddleback Church, the
Lake Forest,
Calif., megachurch (22,000 in attendance on Sundays), seems to be
in the pulpit one minute, in Washington or Rwanda the next. His
work is in every bookstore, Wal-Mart and Sam's Club. Online. On
CD. On DVD. Indeed, tell him about
any
new mode of communication, "and I'll be there," he said in a
recent interview. astor Warren certainly disagrees with Obama on significant issues like protecting unborn children and the institution of marriage.But Warren has also demonstrated a great concern for the spiritual, moral and social needs of all Americans, particularly the less fortunate.He's demonstrated this concern through his church ministry and work on the AIDS and poverty issues.Mr. Obama inclusion of Pastor Warren signals that he recognizes the importance of the evangelical community Pastor Warren represents.He will need them and other Americans
to deal with the challenges facing our nation,added Prichard.     e certainly
disagree with
and will
strongly
oppose
Mr. Obama on a number of his policy
initiatives, but where we agree we will support him on those initiatives.The selection of Pastor Warren to participate in his inauguration was the right thing to do,concluded Prichard.  .The Minnesota Family Council is Minnesota largest nonprofit, non-partisan pro-family organization 2855 Anthony Lane South. Suite 150iMinneapolis, MN 55418-3265 The basic premise of the Purpose Driven paradigm is for a pastor to recognize and be obedient to God s for his people and his and organize around developing these characteristics into the lives of people within
his care.
In
Christian terms, this is the task of . An additional focus is how to be most
effective
in
reaching
out to share God s love and in the local community and with non-believers who visit the church. In Christian terms, this is the task of . Ministers talk about a calling , but for
most of us, work is just employment. The average person can only imagine what it must be like to own the business, be the CEO or be independently wealthy. Work is just a means to an
end. Surprisingly, many of the most powerful people in the working world
might say the
same
thing if they were asked. While
our business leaders have larger responsibilities and more
rewards,
they often discover that even if work is tremendously rewarding, it doesnt fill all their needs. We hope that life is more than work. In fact, we criticize those for whom work seems to be all consuming. We intuitively know that the workaholic is out of balance.For most of us, work means a job. The head of the Makerere Community Church, a rapidly growing congregation, Ssempa enjoys close ties
to his country's first lady, Janet Museveni, and is a favorite of
the Bush White House. In the capitol of Kampala, Ssempa
is known for his boisterous crusading. Ssempa's stunts
have included burning condoms in the name of Jesus and arranging the publication of names of homosexuals in cooperative local
newspapers while lobbying for criminal penalties to imprison them. Dr. Helen Epstein, a public health consultant who wrote the book, , met Ssempa in 2005. Epstein told me the preacher seemed gripped by paranoia, warning her of a secret witches coven that met under Lake Victoria. The Invisible Cure: Why We're Losing the Fight Against AIDS in Africa "Ssempa also spoke to me for a very long time about his fear of homosexual men and women," Epstein said. Unsourced material may be and removed.needs additional for . citations verification improve this article reliable references challenged (January 2009) The trademarked term comes from the teaching of , senior pastor
of in Lake Forest, California. It originally came into use as a taught to pastors and other leaders worldwide to help them be more effective in leading their churches. Warren's statement that "Whenever God wanted to prepare someone for his purposes, he took forty days" has been criticized as both overly
broad and contradicted by Scripture.
Warren has also been accused of rejecting rational criticism of religion and asserting that morality derives exclusively from religion. sin Jesus [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [] edit Ashley Smith After hostage read Chapter 32 to her captor (who shot four people in on , ), the book hit number one on several religion and advice best-seller lists - including , , and . Smith
admitted
in her memoirs that she had also pacified her captor with . Smith says Nichols had her bound on her bed with masking tape and an extension cord. Smith says in her book that as the night wore on she tried and succeeded in winning Nichols trust by talking about her faith in God and
relating to him her personal stories. Churchly affirmation of homosexual unions is said to be part of the "new thing" that the
Spirit is doing in the world. On the other hand, there are those who would
seek security in discipline and obedience. It is this second tendency that
has given rise to the popularity of the best-selling book by Rick Warren,The Purpose Driven Life. No doubt that current enthusiasm for and the line of supporting products developed by Rick Warren and his associates will soon go the way of Promise Keepers, WWJD bracelets, and the
Prayer of Jabez. Nevertheless, for the moment at least, has caught the
imagination and pocketbooks of Lutheran
pastors and laity. We'd like to partner with you on helping the poor.
We'd like to help end AIDS. We'd like to help end corruption and injustice.' "So," he says, "I started making the appeal for people of goodwill, whether they happened to believe,
as I do, that Jesus Christ is the son of God, or not, to work together on the areas where we can work together, and not worry about the areas where we can't." Says Warren, "We'll work with anybody who wants to stop AIDS." And that, he says, "really makes the fundamentalists mad." "But when people say Saddleback is not a evangelistic church," or that Warren is not standing for Christ all the time, "there's a spiritual term for that," he says. Human Rights Campaign (HRC) on religion in society, obama, gay issues, obama inauguration: Letter to Pres-Elect
Obama on Choice of Rev. Rick Warren Send this page to: Separate multiple addresses with commas 20 addresses max. Your Name(Optional) Your Email Personal Note:(Optional) Email addresses will be used to email the information on your behalf and will not be collected, shared, sold, or
used by
Opposing Views for any other purpose. See our . privacy policy Should
Obama
have
Picked Rick Warren for Inauguration? On January 20, Barack
Obama
will
become the new president of the United
States, but
the upcoming inauguration is already making headlines. Scheduled to give the invocation speech is evangelical minister Rick Warren, whose comments comparing gay marriage to incest and beastiality have made him a highly controversial figure. Will Obama's choice to ring in the new year unite America, or further fracture an already divided country? by Rick Warren    "In the years I have been a pastor," writes Rick Warren, "the number-one question I'm asked is, 'Rick, why can't I change?' People want to change, but they're stuck." Do you want to get unstuck? Here's how. Drawing simple but powerful truths from the Bible, this book gives you practical guidance for
specific
types of
change, and it links you up with the power to actually make the changes you long to
make. As you apply the truth of God's Word by the power
of the Spirit, your life will change. You'll move out of your rut
and get on track with God's wonderful purposes for your life. You
have given us in this great
country the resources to provide
not only for our own needs but or the needs of many others; Help us, then, to rededicate
ourselves
to the use of the gifts you have given us not only for our benefit, but
for the benefit of those whose need is greater than ours; Let there be no room among us for injustice in the sharing of your gifts and in the opening up of
opportunity without regard for our human divisions of age and race and gender and nation and language; Help us to broaden our understanding of the task before us and give us a greater willingness to work together to fulfill the vision: to beat swords into plowshares and spears into pruning
hooks, to learn war no more but to seek peace with justice for all people everywhere; Guide and strengthen, Merciful God, those now called to serve as President and Vice President, as
members of Congress and of the Courts; give them wisdom, patience, and understanding to seek your will and not their own, and to find ways to work together for the common good, that we may give thanks to you, O God, for the vision you have given us and for the hope with which we are
able to go forward from this day and place. When Warren unveiled his global AIDS
initiative
at a 2005 conference at his Saddleback Church, he cast
Ssempa as his indispensable sidekick, assigning him to lead a
breakout
session on abstinence-only education as well as a seminar on AIDS prevention. Later, Ssempa delivered a keynote address, a speech so stirring it "had the audience on the edge of its seats," according to Warren's public relations agency. A year later, Ssempa returned to Saddleback Church to lead another seminar on AIDS. By this time, his bond with the Warrens had grown almost familial. "You are
my brother, Martin, and I love you," Rick Warren's wife, Kay, said to Ssempa from the
stage. Her voice trembled with emotion
as she spoke, and tears ran down her cheeks. Multiple
Reinforcements  The program depends on
many reinforcements throughout the
week - church
services, small groups, daily quiet times and a weekly
memory
verse. Behavioral Teaching  Each aspect of the program helps
people become “doers” and not
mere listeners. After each section there
is a homework assignment, activity or event. Exponential Thinking  Exponential thinking is thinking that stretches faith. It forces leaders to look beyond what God has done before and focus instead on believing God for greater growth, greater giving and so on. To summarize, is a
comprehensive program that impacts every area of the
church’s ministry for the duration
of the program and very possibly beyond. Warren warns that many other programs and activities will need to be placed on hold
or even cancelled if they are not part of . Using biblical
stories and letting the
Bible
speak for itself. ********* To
check out my other book/magazine listings please scroll down to the bottom of this auction to 'More Items From This Seller' and click on 'Books & Magazines./p>
I'm happy to combine to save you postage and thanks for
looking. Special Instructions I'm sorry no international traders. Yes I will combine and I will hold books for a maximum of two weeks unless by prior arrangement. When Scripture is not used in the way God intends, this sort of inconsistency is inevitable. Warren’s ongoing abuse of
Scripture is my primary concern with his ministry. Just as we would doubt the love of a husband who abuses his wife, so we must wonder at Warren’s love of Scripture if he is so willing to abuse it. The All-Encompassing Nature of Purpose Driven Programs Many of the laypeople who began a study of through a program had no idea that they were part of a larger effort. It is entirely possible that by the time these people received their book, the church leadership had already begun implementing the Purpose Driven programs and had been doing so for several
months. I am aware of several churches where this was done without the
knowledge or consent of the congregation. The leadership simply decided to implement the program and went ahead. The decision angered and advocates and led to criticism of both Obama and Warren. More controversy ensued when it was announced that Warren would be the keynote speaker at
the Annual Commemorative Service on January 19, 2009, the day prior to the inauguration. inauguration ceremony pro-choice LGBT
[15]
Martin
Luther King, Jr. [16] Ministries Warren and his wife are directors of the following non-profit organizations: Acts of Mercy Equipping the Church Purpose Driven comes from the
teaching
of
Warren, and came into use as a taught to pastors and other leaders worldwide to help them be more effective in leading their churches. The teaching is embodied in Warren s best-selling book, , first published in 1995. Criswell of First Baptist Church, Dallas, personally prayed for him... Warren is a graduate of California Baptist College and Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, with a
Doctor of
Ministry degree from Fuller Theological
Seminary.Extra credit Other famous conservative evangelicals include , , and , and Billy Graham Franklin Graham Jerry Falwell Pat Robertson Four Good Links PHOTOS | View images from
the protest The national uproar
over Rev. Rick Warren spilled into the streets of Atlanta
during services for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday.
About 75
mostly
gay and lesbian people stood across the
street
from
Ebenezer Baptist Church, where Warren headlined the annual service, and chanted their disapproval for the selection and the California pastor’s views against marriage equality and other progressive causes. The protest was the work of the Atlanta Black LGBT Coalition, GLBT ATL and other progressive groups who have spoken out forcefully against Warren’s inclusion in the events. We "thank, praise, serve, and obey" God not in order to gain His approval but because He created us "without any merit or worthiness of mine." Luther's explanation of the first
article comes to culmination in the
daily prayers and table of duties appended to the six chief parts but often
overlooked in contemporary
catechesis. God is thanked and praised in the prayers that
punctuate the daily life (morning, evening, mealtime) and He is served and obeyed as Christians live out their various callings in
congregation, family, and community (table of
duties).Small
Catechism
Perhaps the popularity of and its attendant programs in our churches is a signal that we have forgotten the "extraordinary ordinariness" of the Lutheran understanding of life (to borrow a phrase from Mark Noll) that lies behind the Lutheran doctrine of vocation. Gustaf Wingren's classic treatment, is thankfully back in print again. Two new books designed for lay study, Gene Edward Veith's (Crossway Books) and Marc Kolden's (Centered Life Series-Luther Seminary) are fine alternatives toThe Purpose Driven LifeLuther on VocationGod at Work: Your Christian Vocation in All of LifeThe Christian's Calling in the WorldThe Purpose Driven Life. Includes: Samples and photos
of emerging church worship gatherings Recommended
resources for the emerging church The seeker-sensitive movement revolutionized the way we did church and introduced countless baby boomers to Jesus. Yet trends show that todays post-Christian generations are not responding like the generations before them. As we enter a new cultural era, what do worship services look like that are connecting with the hearts of
emerging
generations? How do preaching, leadership, evangelism, spiritual formation, and, most of all, how we even think of church need to change? The Emerging Church goes beyond just theory and gets into very practical ways of assisting you in your local church circumstances. There is no one right way, no model
for
us all to
emulate. That doesn help me. I need the gospel to solve my sin
problem.isisI don need Warren aphorismsnd certainly not thousands of them. The User Friendly Gospel: Warren Wide Gate Rick Warren gospel is never clearly described. Here is one of his statements
about it: od won ask about your religious background or doctrinal views. The only thing that will matter is, did you accept what Jesus did for you and did you learn to love and trust him?(Warren: 34). But, doctrine does matter because our doctrine of Christ determines whether we believe in the Christ of the Bible or the Christ of Mormonism or some other religion. John
MacArthur
hard-hitting book, on the other
hand, makes the gospel clear, powerful, and unmistakable. 2002 15.5 x 23 cm 336 pages.
Condition: first name first page, light edge wear, interior in vg
condition.
The most basic question everyone
faces in life is Why am I here? What is my purpose?
Self-help books suggest that people should look within, at their own desires and dreams, but Rick Warren says the starting place must be with God and his eternal purposes for each life. Real
meaning and significance comes from understanding and fulfilling God purposes for putting us on earth. The Purpose-Driven Life takes the groundbreaking message of the
award-winning Purpose-Driven Church and
goes deeper, applying it to the lifestyle of individual Christians. This book helps readers understand God incredible plan for their lives. Monday, January 19, 2009 An Inauguration Prayer The controversy over the choice of Rick Warren to offer prayer on Inauguration Day led me to look again at the Inauguration Day prayers in (Morehouse Publishing, 2008). Examples of the art are provided from ZeBarney Thorne Phillips, Dwight Eisenhower, and Billy Graham. Phillips' prayer is
as memorable as his name, but the
others seem to me uninspired.
Had they
asked me, I would have provided the prayer below. I will be happy to send a free copy of to anyone who can provide a prayer which, in the opinion of the judges (me) is at least more memorable and appropriate than those in the book. Warren sentimentality makes God seem dependant on man for His happiness. The author of Hebrews continues: i>Therefore, since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe; for our God is a consuming fire(). Making God appear to be like a doting parent gaining happiness from watching his or her kid play softball does not do justice to the
Biblical portrayal of the nature of God.Hebrews 12:28, 29 Theologically this constitutes over emphasizing God immanence at the
expense of His
transcendence. This tendency is the
hallmark of theological liberalism. The Bible teaches that
both are true of God. Each chapter contains a personal application section at the end with a "point to ponder," a verse to
remember,
and a question to consider over the course of that day. Rick Warren described his book
as an
"anti-self-help book." The first sentence of the book reads, "It's not about you," and the remainder of the chapter goes on to
explain
how the quest for personal fulfillment, satisfaction,
and meaning can only be found in understanding and doing what God placed you on
Earth to do.