The economics of this place were so nicely balanced before our arrival that everybody here
could live and yet nothing be wasted.
Our presence brought disaster to the whole
arrangement. We, having more
money than the natives, have been able to buy up the whole egg product of the town and about all the canned goods in the store. I fear some of them will have to suffer as a result. Orville to his sister, July 28, 1901 Mr. Huffaker [an aviation experimenter] arrived Thursday afternoon, and with him a swarm of mosquitoes which
came in a mighty cloud, almost darkening
the sun. View Map Centennial Village - Adobe Pantry The settlers of northeastern Colorado constructed buildings from a variety of materials, including cottonwood, stones, milled lumber, and adobe. Structures made of adobe bricks were durable and economical. With lumber scarce and expensive, Greeley's founder, Nathan Meeker,
built his own 1870 home of adobe
bricks and urged other
settlers to do so. The
Spanish used adobe in Mexico and
the American southwest, while Germans living in Russia built houses, horse barns, and
wagon sheds out of dried clay blocks called
"kohlsteine" before
immigrating to the United States.Ca 1906 In 1910 farmers
living on the plains received an Extension Service bulletin which gave instructions and plans for constructing farm buildings of adobe bricks. Adobe became popular in many areas, as demonstrated by this outbuilding. This structure was built southeast of LaSalle between 1905 and 1915 by Germans from Rlussia and used as a chicken house and pantry.
According to Khalili's website
in an emergency, impermanent shelters
can be built using only dirt with no cement or lime, and for the
sake of speed of construction windows can be punched
out later due to the strength of the compressive nature of the dome/beehive. Ordinary sand bags can also be used to form the dome if no Super Adobe tubes can be procured; this in fact was how the original design was developed. There is a great potential for long-term emergency shelters with Super Adobe because of the simplicity of construction. Type a proposed for the , , , or other Adobe related resource in the following box. name project organization thesis how to create
Add information. Do not worry about formatting or
completeness, others will help and changes are easily made. Be . BOLD This topic is by moderated Lonny Pages in category "Adobe" The following 5 pages are in this category, out of 5 total. D the use of local renewable, recycled resources and building materials to considerably reduce cost and environmental impact, avoiding the use of industrial
materials; providing roofs in the configuration of adobe vaults and domes, a unique yet ancient design feature which eliminates the use of wood, an increasingly scarce natural resource; designs which harness natural energy for heating and cooling . Adobe walls retain heat in the winter and stay cool in the summer, eliminating the cost of
mechanical heating and cooling
systems; As such, it remits to Winnicott's notion of a
transactional object, mediating the Border's undefined Œpotential space‰ with a complex iconography attesting to a subtle integration of three distinct imaginaries: the Arab, the Hispanic and Anglo-Saxon, all of which evoke
Swan's ongoing exchanges with Mexican master builders, her
apprentices with
restorers of the historic Fort Leaton and her lifelong commitment to Egyptian architect Hassan Fathy's profound lessons on adobe architecture. In an international context, Swan's architecture belongs to a third generation of Fathy inspired projects -which took place mostly in Saudi Arabia and Egypt- advocating for their ecological
relevance in today's
world. Anasazi System of Prehistoric People of the Desert Southwest Evaluation Models of in the
Four coners Area - The Aerial Prespective Archaeology A
Blending of Cultures in a Pueblo Indian Village Northern San Juan Basin. Anasazi Archaeology at Missions National Monument and Dwellings Prehistoric Peoples of the Folsom, Clovis Points Desert Southwest Pueblo History The
legendary walls of New
Mexico's National
Historic Park , , ,and of Pueblos from the ,and of Pueblos from the Photos of the of 1680 Ancient and modern history of the and neighboring peoples of the Four Corners region, with information on the cultures and environment of the Southwestern Colorado
Plateau. Acoma Anasazi, Hopi,
Navajo, Navajo History The Navajo by Harrison
Lapahie Jr. The Story Behind The Movie from
AmazingStories.com. The Story of the from U.S.
Navy site Extracts from Oral Histories and Photographs of Navajo Uranium Miners & Their Families With The Navajo Tribe, 1868 The Native American Nations of the History and culture of the Navajo & Hopi. ,
Apache, ,and from the Long Walk Navajo
Jicarilla photos Copper
Photogravure Plates Curtis
Collection Simone presented her work
to colleagues from Africa and South America at
the University of Santa Clara, Cuba, and at the Centro Universitario Echeverria near Havana. The conferences in Cuba were of immense interest and high quality. The first was on earth building and included Gernot Minke whom I grew to like and admire
enormously. Speakers from Ecuador (on
preventive seismic damage to
foundations of rammed earth buildings), Cuba
(community cooperative
construction of schools,) Seychelles, Namibia and more were thorough, passionate and
provided clear
illustrations. The second was in Santa Clara on
Eco-Materials.
Presenters came from
Kenya, Switzerland, Turkey, Argentina, Brasil, Cuba of
course, and appeared to me far
ahead in research,
application and thoroughness from the little I have
witnessed here in the US. Both conferences were
super-efficiently organized by Paul Moreno of Quito. I have the emails of participants and
shall be receiving more information.November 11-15, 2005, the Proyecto de Alimentos y
Semillas in Guatemala will query Simone on adobe building and the appropriate roofing in
that climate.November 20,2005 Titled, " Earthen
Construction in the Tropics", it was hosted by the office of Architect Angela Stassano and SWSA. Architectural students, engineers and architects from Honduras, as well as stateside builders attended. Hands-on and a great lunch were enjoyed at Lupita's plantel in Colonia Tara. The class was taught in English/Spanish with translator
Carlos Assaf directing the translation at the Hotel Copantl. Hands-on at the plantel included cinva-ram, two hydraulic pressing machines and arch/wall construction.   To learn more about the art and history of Pojoaque Pueblo, click here. Nambe Pueblo
Located 18 miles north of Santa Fe off US 84/285 and NM 503,
Nambe Pueblo is set in the panoramic foothills of the Sangre de Christo Mountains. A
drive through this area offers some of the most uniquely breathtaking scenery in the New Mexico high desert. Established in the 1300s, Nambe Pueblo was originally a primary cultural and religious center. Sadly, upon their
arrival, the Spanish conquerors brought the
area to nearly complete destruction. Today,
approximately 600 tribal members live on
the 19,000-acre reservation. An important
part of the Pueblo is
the beautiful Nambe Falls Recreation Area. This is a
wonderful place to kick back and enjoy nature. Aside
from the hike up the
mountain to view the falls, Nambe Falls offers swimming,
boating, lake fishing and seasonal camping. To
learn more about the art and
history of Nambe Pueblo, click here.     Archaeology is the study of the human past through material remains. 
The Department of Sociology and
Anthropology has an active program of archaeological fieldwork, museum-based research, and undergraduate education, with a focus on the Pre-Columbian and history eras of the New World.   Facilities include a small archaeology/biological anthropology lab that serves as a base for faculty and student research projects.  We also host the , an annual one-day event designed to bring current archaeological research on important social topics to a broad audience.  Our students have attended
field schools and
volunteered on archaeological projects throughout the
United States and
abroad; many have gone on to graduate
school as well as careers in public
archaeology. George Mason
Symposia on Archaeology
  The 19th Century Manor and
Industry Martin J. Ryerson
purchased the historic ironworks and began building the present Manor House in 1807 while still operating the iron mines and forges on the property. Ryerson ran 5 forge-furnace complexes in three counties from his headquarters at Ringwood for the next half century. Ryerson made shot for the war of 1812 and negotiated land and
water rights with the Morris Canal Company for expansion of Long Pond (Greenwood Lake) and
construction of the Pompton Feeder
on the Morris Canal. Special populations - what did they do with those who were badly
injured or handicapped? How is it similar/different than how we deal with exceptionalities today? How did the pioneers utilize herbs and homeopathic medicines and did they learn from the native population to use indigenous plants? Leisure Time and Recreation How did the pioneers beautify their surroundings? What games, recreational activities, entertainment, athletics, avocations, etc. were they involved with? Justice and the Law How did the pioneers deal with issues of law
and order? What penalties were imposed? When and how did they establish jails and prisons? Environment and Conditions What impact does a wagon train have on the environment (insect populations, flora, fauna, water quality, air quality)? What traces did the pioneers leave as they traveled and why (discarded baggage, graves, writings, etc.)? How did the pioneers deal with water treatment and quality issues? How were the pioneers changed by the experience and how did they
change their environment?
- the process whereby energy is emitted from "body,"
travels through an intervening
medium and then is absorbed by
another "body."Radiation - a
ceremonial act usually following an established
form or order.Ritual - rectangular in
shape.Rectilinear - a scientific method of
achieving a practical
purpose.Technology Types of American Indian Structures and Materials (By no means an exhaustive list) - a building material consisting of clay, water and plant material (usually grass)Adobe - small buildings made of cypress pine or palmetto log and
thatched with palmetto fronds (Southeast)Chickee - usually circular dwellings with walls and ceilings often made of alternating logs (similar to a log cabin) which are covered with bark and wet clay (Southwest--primarily Navajo)Hogan - an earth-covered family dwelling of the Indians living in the foothill region of Caifornia.Koola - a
round, ceremonial room used by the Anasazi and still present in some modern pueblos.Kiva - multi-family houses built in a similar fashion as wigwams but rectangular in shape. (Northeast--primarily Iroquois)Longhouse - a semi-subterannean dwelling with a log-framed roof covered with earth, mats or bark. (Central Plateau)Pit House -
usually rectangular (sometimes with a roof
with eaves) dwelling made from planks of wood (often red cedar).
On the central Spanish meseta the
unit of settlement was and is the ; that is to say, the large
nucleated village surrounded by its
own fields, with no outlying farms,
separated from its neighbours by some considerable distance, sometimes as much as ten miles or so. The demands of agrarian routine and the need for defense, the simple desire for human society in the vast solitude of the plains,dictated that it should be so. Nowadays the pueblo might have a population running into thousands. they were smaller in the early middle ages, but we should probably not be far wrong if we think of them as having had populations of some hundreds.puebloDoubtless
[1] Of the federally recognized Native American communities in the Southwest, those designated by the as Pueblos at the time treaties to the United States are now legally recognized by the as Pueblos. The largest and most powerful western tribe was the Sioux, also known as the Dakota. The Santee Sioux lived in the woodlands of Minnesota, while the Teton Sioux, comprised of several different bands, lived further to the west, in the Great Plains. Like other Plains people, they camped in teepees and owned many horses, which were useful for hunting. The Cheyennes once lived with the Santee Sioux in Minnesota, but eventually moved west and acquired horses. The Cheyennes were comprised of two bands. The Northern Cheyennes lived with the Teton Sioux in the Powder River and Bighorn country of Montana and Wyoming. The Southern Cheyennes lived below the Platte River in villages on the Colorado and Kansas plains. The Arapahos were also comprised of northern and southern bands, which were closely associated and lived in the same areas with the Cheyenne bands. Sitting-in-the-Saddle, a Native American (Kiowa) man The Kiowas once lived in the Black Hills of South Dakota, but the Sioux, Cheyennes, and Arapahos pushed them south into the land of the Comanches below the buffalo ranges of Kansas and Nebraska. For desert climates we prefer metal French doors and windows, made to order locally. Wood needs constant protection from ultraviolet rays. Because of the harmonious curves afforded by vaults and domes, exterior design is kept simple and discreet. Proportions created by the height of the walls below the roofs play an important role not only esthetically but in providing shade where and when needed. Hence, our reliance on outdoor walled courtyards and loggias as roofless rooms to enhance comfort and enjoyment. Landscaping is kept indigenous. EXTERIOR DESIGN EARTHEN PLASTER Adobe walls demand adobe plaster for maximum, long-lasting protection and breathability. The plaster we use is a composition of clay, sand, water, nopal (prickly pear cactus) juice, horse manure (we now suspect the manure attracts termites,) and finely chopped wheat straw. The straw provides structure and wicks away moisture. Nopal is highly
glutinous and adhering, and small amounts of
horse manure add malleability to the mix. The plaster creates a smooth coat but may be further finished with a lime wash or other non-chemical finish plaster. We have had little success with lime but have not eradicated it as a possibility. For other uses, see . Pueblo (disambiguation) are traditional communities of in the southwestern . The communities are recognized worldwide for their buildings, which are sometimes called "pueblos". Some pueblos only have a few of these buildings still standing.Pueblos Native Americans United States of America adobe [] edit Etymology and usage To find the right combination experiment with the materials at hand until your bricks come out right. The same combining of sand and clay is used by to made the raw material for production of or even to make molds for the casting of . clay sand Pueblo Indians pottery jewelry Bricks are made in an open frame, 10 inches by 14 inches is a reasonable size, but any convenient size is fine for your own use. After the mud is put into the frame the frame is removed. After a few hours the bricks are put on edge to finish drying. Bricks should be dried in the shade. & the official Site , Rituals and Beliefs - Culture of the Western Apache Becoming Woman: Apache Female Puberty Ceremonies - Na'ii'ees, The Apache Woman's Puberty Ceremony Highlights of Melanie Bell's coming-of-age ceremony (na'ii'ees), held on Mescalero Apache land in New Mexico An Apache ...PurpleHawk's Nest Apache Indian - Photos of Apache, past and present History, beliefs, customs, food, ceremonies, dwellings, and more , Crops & Hunting Chiricahua Profile Of An Apache Texts Apache Text Jicarilla Apache Nation 3 days' hiking7 Days Walking with Nomads A unique adventure following the Ait Atta nomad migration 5-6 days' hiking9 Days High Atlas Quick Escape Three days of dramatic hiking, a stone's throw from Marrakech 3 days' hiking6 Days M'Goun Circuit A wilderness trek along nomad trails to the top of M'Goun. 6 days' hiking10 Days Western Atlas ExplorerA traverse of the beautifully remote Western High Atlas. 6 days' hiking10 Days Ait Bougmez Day Hikes A more leisurely Moroccan trek - great for families.. 4 days' hiking8 Days Sirwa Trek An easy-paced trek through the
isolated and interesting Sirwa. Each one represented a Spirit, Teacher, Bean or things & People that mean’t something to them. The North west Indians lived by the waters and made canoes out of Cedar Bark, called ‘Dug Outs’ because they burned out a cavity in the middle. They hunted for Salmon and made special hooks to catch whales and made big floats
out of Seal skin that ballooned to keep the fish afloat as they
dragged it to shore.
They had all kinds of totem poles made for different
occasions, the ‘Mortuary Pole’ for a dead person was usually placed at the rear of the house.
The expression, "burying the
hatchet," was derived from this
custom.Fun Fact: Photo source:National
Archives (111-SC-202199) Horses The
introduction of horses to Native American
people on the Great Plains had a huge impact on their culture, improving their ability to hunt, fight, and travel. Horses were introduced to the Plains people by the Spanish in the 18th century. Acquiring horses allowed Native Americans greater mobility—former agriculture-based tribes of the river valleys became nomadic hunters, creating a new life on the Plains. [] edit External links - This site is loaded with the history, politics and techniques of many types of . networkearth natural building - Brief and could use some revision, but a good model of concise presentation. ABCs of making Adobe Bricks Two girls, two adoberas (adobe forms), one big, adobe box. Ren e and Kendra construct an adobe box in an to hold water as an alternative to the plastic linings for ponds and gray water marshes. Pequals.com Adobe Box attempt To create a page related to Adobe Among the Indians there was talk of war and killing, and of driving the white man from the land. During the spring of 1874 a leader and prophet for the Indians emerged in the person of Isa-tai of the Quahadi Band of Comanches. Isa-tai's medicine was viewed as being very strong and he was doing his best to incite a war against the whites. Because the majority of Indians now saw themselves as being in a desperate situation with the only alternative to starvation being war, it took little persuasion by Isa-tai to convince the Indian leaders they must strike back at the whites. Thus, a plan was formed that the Indians would attack and destroy the new settlement of buffalo hunters at Adobe Walls. In several places, the contractors had to replace the original adobe bricks rotted by the weather with Santa Fe adobe. Contractor Byron McGough explained that there was not enough time to make new adobe bricks on site because they would take too long to cure, but the Santa Fe adobe is very similar in composition. Also under way are efforts to raise about $40,000 for the exhibits. Ideas include wall panels that look like part of the wall from a distance but open to expose an interpretive panel. There may be boxes, such as a trunk at the foot of the bed. When opened, museum visitors will discover exciting objects and devices that tell a story about Hispanic
culture. The committee is also compiling oral histories and so far
have interviewed Frank and Lillian Martinez, Velentine Melendrez, Rose Cordova, Lawrence
Olivas, Louis Trujillo,
the Romero family and Maury Albertson.
Today, stabilization techniques keep moisture from affecting the earth walls. Those who build in wetter climates often choose either rammed earth or pressed block, which require little curing time. Adobe construction, in combination with good passive solar design, makes for an effective energy-saving solution in cold winter areas. The use of high-mass walls, insulation and a large south solar aperture, can cut energy use in January by 60% or more. High-mass earth walls also
cut cooling costs in hot desert locales. Earth walls allow you to buy smaller heating and cooling units and run them for shorter periods of time- a big defense against today's escalating energy costs. The old adobe saying "cooler in summer and warmer in winter" has some basis in truth. THE LEARNING CURVEThe knowledge and skills don't happen overnight. You'll need to view, read, visit, practice, talk and draw. The more construction experience you have, the sooner you'll be
ready. At Southwest Solaradobe School, we advise
newcomers to start learning at least two Smoki People
changed the landscape of Prescott and the
Southwest. Discover why the Hopi Indian Tribe
marched in protest against the
activities of the Smoki People.
Passion, community, controversy and the
crossroads of culture in 20th Century west weave through this uniquely Prescott story.NEW!This rare group of community-minded individuals Explore the full history of the Smoki People and the Museum. of prehistoric and
contemporary pottery, prehistoric jewelry and
stone artifacts. The
exhibits also include an outstanding collection of Southwest basketry and . Among the Museum's many valued collections are artist Kate Cory's numerous photographs, paintings and documents.The Museum houses irreplaceable collections Smoki Museum kachinas school groups, civic organizations and travel groups. Our facilities are available for classes. A
comprehensive of books on
American Indian archaeology and
ethnography is available for research. The offers affordable arts and crafts created by
Native North and South Americans, as well as several
Southwest . The welcomes
It's about people building their shelter
owner-builder style to ancient, empirical standards, rather than the analytical, restrictive codes typical in developed countries. But we have to reflect that all of American society's earlier architecture was more empirical
and "naturally green" than what we typically build today. The book evokes a quiet
challenge to the reader: "how can we return to capture some of the sustainable, distinctive and well-built pattern and craftwork from the past, codify it for safety, and then reintroduce it to refresh ourselves?" Built by Hand The building techniques documented display Adobe, Bamboo, Rammed Earth, Stone, Terrón, Thatch, Timber Frame, and various Plant Fibers. Rooftop shots of adobe villages, interior shots with the dwellers and on-site shots with the family or crew working
show that Komatsu took the time to
think out his composition, along with the color and details he wanted to capture. Komatsu's friendly approach is reflected in the smiles and natural postures of the subjects. They brought hides and pelts to the fort in exchange for necessities, such as Hudson Bay blankets , brass kettles and pots and pans, but also for whiskey, silk handkerchiefs, and ivory combs. The adobe fort, which was approximately 100 feet square and 12 feet tall, had living quarters, a barn, storage,
and trading rooms. Competition from the other forts along the river forced
Vasquez and Sublette to sell out in 1841.
Soon the decline in the
demand for beaver pelts brought an end to the commercial use of all the forts. It was subsequently destroyed by Indians around 1842. With the 1859 gold rush to Colorado, traders and settlers restored part of the fort, using it for living quarters. The Overland Mail Express stages stopped there only if a passenger or shipment needed to be left off. By
the early part of the 20th century the adobe structure had fallen into ruins. Only small portions of the walls remained when the WPA began reconstruction of the fort in the late 1930's. With increasing competition from neighboring forts, Vasquez and Sublette sold their post in 1841, and it was abandoned a year later.  By the 1930s, when
the fort was reconstructed as a WPA project, only small portions of the walls remained. Archaeological excavations of the 1960s unearthed artifacts as well as new information about the actual size and plan of the fort--information that was unavailable during the 1930s reconstruction. First owned by Weld County, Fort Vasquez was deeded to
the Colorado Historical Society
in 1958. In 1964 the Society completed the Fort Vasquez visitors center, which also contains
exhibits on the fur trade period. To learn more about of
Fort Vasquez, there are some links below that you might find interesting. Information about Fort Vasquez and the visitor's center.   Short article and several good photos of Fort Vasquez and the museum.   Be sure to visit Fort Vasquez if you are in the
area.  This was a
fort built during the same
time period as St. Part of the Historical and Social Sciences framework. Adobe is one of mankind's oldest
building materials.  From
biblical times to the
colonization of the new
world, adobe bricks have
provided much needed
shelter for people from
Egypt to the Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Americas.In the American Southwest, many homes, missions and presidios were built out of adobe brick.An understanding of adobe brick making, and its applications, is a wonderful educational tool, and a part of the Historical and Social Sciences framework.  It has many applications when learning about history, culture and science.The cost is $46.00 per kit, and $10.00 shipping and handling.The adobe brick kit contains all materials necessary to make authentic adobe bricks. Adobe Brick Making for Children as a Class Activity Adobe brick making book, by Klaus Duebbert 3 wooden adobe forms The Navajos, on the other hand, adopted some aspects of Spanish culture and learned to farm and raise livestock. Mangas, Warm Springs Apache chief The Pueblos were living in the Southwest as early as the first century, A.D., long before the Apaches and Navajos arrived from the north. The Pueblos were hunter-gatherers who gradually became farmers as well. They built adobe villages into shallow caves and under overhanging cliffs. These Southwest tribes were often raided by the Utes, a tribe that lived to the north in the Rockies. Study photographs to examine and compare the cultures of different tribes. The Adobe Alliance is a non-profit group dedicated to: helping communities apply cooperative building techniques in earth architecture; educate groups in fulfilling the widespread need for low cost, salubrious, energy efficient, sustainable housing;  enhance rather than defile landscapes by designing solid contemporary structures of simple design which respect local climate, environment and culture.   - A kiva is a room used by modern Puebloans for religious rituals, many of them associated with the kachina belief system. Among the modern Hopi and most other Pueblo peoples, kivas are square-walled and above-ground, and are used for spiritual ceremonies. Kivas - Horno is a mud adobe built outdoor oven used by Native Americans and early settlers of North America. It was used to cook corn and bread. Horno From adobe pueblos in the Southwest to a Chippewa birchbark wigwam in the Northeast--this carefully researched coloring book spotlights a wide array of Native American
dwellings. For colorists, teachers,
and anyone interested in the lives of the first
Americans. Dover Original. Includes informative captions. 6
color illustrations on covers. Wigwams, Longhouses and Other Native American
Dwellings Author: (you can always remove it later.) Shopping here is Guaranteed Safe! Add this to your cart Here's a sample of other Dover titles that may interest your customers. Forty line drawings accurately depict the costume and culture of the Plains Indians. Apache, Pawnee, Blackfoot, Crow, etc. From 17th to 20th
centuries. The Colonial Manor
House at Ringwood saw at least 5 visits from General Washington on important business. Ringwood iron was used for parts of the great Hudson River chain, as well as for camp ovens, tools and other hardware. Erskine died here in 1780 and is buried in the old cemetery along with more than 400 pioneers, early ironmakers and Revolutionary War soldiers,
including French soldiers of Rochambeau's
army. General Washington valued Ringwood for its iron products, Erskine's map-making defense agency and as a safe route through northern New Jersey. The military road was actually routed right through Ringwood, the half-way point from West Point to Morristown. General Washington was also at Ringwood on April 19, 1783, the very day that a cessation of hostilities was declared between American and Great Britain.   We Won an Award! This page is owned and maintained by Pauli
Driver Smith (Hollyhockfarms.com).
Please report any broken links or problems with this page to County Coordinator. WeldBe sure to include the URL of the page you are referring to! This site was last updated on: December 15, 2008   This site is up for adoption. Located on the South Platte River, Fort Vasquez was an important trading center for Native Maybe, this is what makes Chicago the most American of cities.The Windy CityThe City of Big ShoulderCity of the Century Each of the seventy-seven neighborhoods
in Chicago has a
distinctive history. Once,
over one thousand trains would pass
through Englewood in one day. It was the brass ring for immigrant families coming from the Stockyard shanties two miles north. Englewood's businesses and stores rivaled the finest shops in Chicago. But today it is
conspicuously missing from most
tourist maps. Englewood is
just a five minute drive from the
Chicago Loop with the
magnificent Chicago skyline in your rear view mirror. One twist of the Dan Ryan Expressway and the skyline turns into smokestacks; two twists and there is moss growing in the cracks of the embankment and boards on windows of the houses along the top. Here lies Englewood, home to 3,000 people. Despite despair and decay, there remains an
indomitable spirit. Englewood has an important story to tell in
American history. SWSA has supported
USAID with
adobe-building assistance in Honduras and delivered presentations at the University of Costa Rica in San José. SWSA is active with the Earthbuilders' Guild towards the formation of better Earthbuilding codes and publishes books about practical Earthbuilding. Southwest SolaradobeAdobe Builder Concentrated classes, led by knowledgeable Earthbuilder/instructors, are necessary to remove misconceptions and clarify the code requirements. All classes are designed to be easily understood,
requiring no advance preparation
beyond your attention, good note taking,
and if possible, a camera. Most offer Hands-on periods, during which students are encouraged to become familiar with tools and materials. Who attends-SWSA weekend sessions appeal to a variety of people. Many are motivated by interests in Class photo, San Pedro Sula, Honduras, July 27, 2005. It was a misconception at the very heart of his plans for the future of the nation. He assumed that the Missouri and Columbia rivers, if not connected, were separated by a short and easy
portage. This "water communication"
might become an expressway
to Asian markets for American fur traders.
The basal course of bricks was
placed on the existing historic ground
surface. Excavations beneath
this surface recovered only prehistoric
artifacts. On the west side this
surface dips down dramatically, whereas on the east side
it is relatively flat. What does this
wall represent? Examination of the soil
profiles by geomorphologists indicates that it
is the earliest historic feature in the trench. There
were no interior abutting walls in the
trench area when it was first built;
thus, it may be a freestanding
wall. The drop on the exterior
suggests that it was
being built next to a sloping area or that the dirt on the exterior had been removed,
perhaps to make adobe bricks. By
building next to a slope or by
removing sediments, the wall
would be higher to people standing outside.
The flat interior surface allowed
structures to be built against
the wall. One possibility
is that this is the west Presidio wall. Teepees were especially good for nomadic tribes or hunting parties because they were easily transported from one location to another, and provided protection from the weather. Because of the adaptability of the teepee to prairie life, Gen. Henry Sibley used it as a model for the tent that bears his name.Fun Fact: Photo source:Library of Congress Earth lodge As shown in the image above, the earth lodge of the Northern Plain Indians was a circular,
dome-shaped house, usually made of posts
and beams that were
covered with branches, grass, and earth. Like a teepee, an earth lodge
usually had an opening in the center of
the roof for smoke and an earth
floor. Each earth lodge was home to an extended family of 10 to 30 people. Each earth lodge stored surplus food, such as corn and sunflower seeds, in a bell-shaped hole called a cache pit.Fun Fact: All subsequent university buildings have also employed the Pueblo style, albeit in increasingly loose interpretations. The other stronghold of Pueblo style architecture is Santa Fe, where it was popularized in the 1920s and 1930s by a group of artists and architects seeking to
establish a unique regional identity. In
1957 a committee led by John Gaw Meem drafted the Historical Zoning Ordinance, which mandated the use of the Pueblo Style or Territorial Style on all new buildings in central Santa Fe. This ordinance remains
in effect, meaning the
Pueblo Style continues to predominate.
Questions? Call or Email Southwest Pueblo Indian
Adobe Birdhouse This southwest
adobe birdhouse has a ladder to the roof,
archway, roof poles and cactus. Handcrafted in cedar this is a great addition to the southwest style backyard. pueblo indian adobe style birdhouse Southwest Adobe Birdhouse ............... $85.00 Plus shipping: USPS ground -
$17.50 USPS Priority - $35.00 Lower 48 States &
includes Insurance. (Call 509-684-8080
for other
locations.) This is designed and
best suited for Swallows,  however, since we at Birds
Eye View have a nondiscriminatory policy, we
have had Bluebirds,
Wrens and Nuthatch renters. 
It is designed to be mounted on a
building, tree or
pole.adobe birdhouse Works Progress Administration
workers reconstructed the
fort in the late 1930's and excavations in the 1960s completed the task. Museum exhibits recreate the era of the fur trade, with Native American  artifacts and information on topics such as mountain man etiquette. A museum store and visitor information center are also part of the complex. The present Fort Vasquez is a modern
reconstruction of an adobe fur trading post built about 1835 by mountain men Louis
Vasquez and Andrew Sublette to
take advantage of the Indian trade along the South Platte River. Approximately 100 feet square by 12 feet tall, the fort was reconstructed from small portions of walls from the original. Krupp transforms a space into a
temple, or in James Turrell's words: „as you plumb a space with vision, it is possible to see yourself seeing. This seeing, this plumbing imbues space with consciousness‰ and thus renews the body's awareness of its astral resonance. Not surprisingly, the Swan house at Casa Piedra invites occasional pilgrimages in spite of its
isolation. Some visits conclude with conversions to Simone Swan's vision and way of
life. On the way to Lajitas, for example, we
found a small tribute to her
art, inspired by the
domed structure she built in front of her house. Here, the squaring of the circle using squinched arches repeats itself, transmuting a totally different landscape. Its single beauty evokes the vi century martyria churches in Antioch or in the Armenian steppes. The couple that built it, meditate, play the guitar, and sing there. In the distance, at the foot of a canyon, another building site is prepared as thousands of mud bricks lay in rows to dry under the sun. Each structure seems to sing its own monochrome symphony: a solitary echo in a space that belongs to all. They own and operate the Big Rock Casino and Bowling Alley in the heart of Española, and the newly developed Black Mesa Golf Course. To learn more about the art and history of Santa Clara Pueblo, click here. San Juan Pueblo Located just two miles north of the town of Española, the San Juan Pueblo is the largest of the Tewa pueblos. Central plazas are bordered by a Catholic church, kivas and a chapel. Today, many of the original 700 homes, dating back before the pilgrims arrival at Plymouth Rock, are still standing adjacent to the Rio Grande river in the fertile Española Valley. The Pueblo owns the Ohkay Casino and a successful RV park and campground, which are open to travelers year round. To learn more about the art and history of San Juan Pueblo, click here. Picuris Pueblo Located 15 miles from Embudo on State Road 73, Picuris Pueblo is the smallest and most remote of Northern New Mexico pueblos. Nestled in a wooded valley of the Sangre de Christo Mountains, the Pueblo is home to several hundred natives. Working on behalf of his clients within strict economic limitations, he re-introduced environmentally sound techniques such as windcatches, cooling towers, the mushrabiya window screen, interior fountains and the ventilating attributes and air-conditioning principles of the courtyard into his designs of schools, houses and entire villages. Fathy also revived a lost method of roofing adobe buildings with domes and Nubian vaults crafted by hand out of sundried bricks smaller in size than wall adobe bricks. All these elements offered solidity, beauty, cultural and spiritual harmony costing far less than conventional structures of
concrete, corrugated
steel and other industrial materials which require mechanical temperature controls. Simone Swan, New York 1990   ~ Visit Ruins & Pueblos in New Mexico via the Virtual Guidebook ~ , & Under a Huge at San Idelfonso Entrance to a Pecos National Monument, New Mexico on the Plaza Zuni, New Mexico North Building of South Buildings
at Aztec Ruins
National Monument, New Mexico , One of Them Restored Aztec National Monument, New Mexico Aztec National Monument, New Mexico Kiva Azted National Monument, New Mexico The Church of San Esteban , New Mexico New Mexico & The South Part of the , Bandelier National Monument, New Mexico Isleta Pueblo, New Mexico & at Las Humanas (Gran Quivira) The Mission Church at Salinas National Monument, New Mexico & Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument, New Mexico Native American Studies at - Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute American Indian Indian Arts - tables for 539 individual tribes from the AIAN Summary File AIAN Tribes - tables and maps for 39 tribal groups from Summary Files 2 and 4 AIAN Tribal Groups - a two-volume report with data for the United States, regions, divisions, states, and selected metropolitan areas Characteristics of American Indians and Alaska Natives by Tribe and Language: 2000 Reservations and other AIAN areas for AIAN areas, tribal census tracts, tribal subdivisions and more, from Summary Files 1 and 3 Tables and maps and an for Federal and state (legal and statistical) areas recognized for Census 2000. List of names and codes (Microsoft Excel format) explanation of geographic codes (PDF - 4 KB) Rankings and Comparisons The ™ gallery began as informal meetings among Adobe builders to trade and purchase paintings and other art within a regional group. The line between and is not a defined one, and the need to communicate artistically beyond the rigors of codes and specific measurements is probably no-where stronger than in the Southwestern Earth building community.Adobe DecoAdobe building craftsFine Art With the advent of the Internet, a few of us have decided to open up our work so that a larger audience can see it. Some of us have displayed work in galleries, but most have been content to paint quietly in spare hours away from the building site and have not exhibited publicly. For this group, the quality print process is a new one, as most of us have never scanned a painting digitally or generated work from a large plotter. We are fortunate to have a local The Lopez Pool Hall - Patagonia, Arizona Watercolor by Joe Tibbetstechnician (an artist also) who takes care of these
duties. As time goes on, ™ will expand to four artists
or more, and each of them will increase the number of works
displayed on the site.Adobe Deco Further,
many tribes decorated their
dwellings quite elaborately.energy What
other factors affected American
Indian architectural
design? energy How did structures change over time? The most important and obvious occuring with American Indian dwellings was a seasonal change. Most tribes were, at least, semi-nomadic. This means that they moved from place to place often following herds of prey animals. Because they locations, they also had to move their houses. Some tribes, like the Plains Indians, moved their homes with them. Others, such as many Northwest tribes, moved out of more permanent winter homes on the
coast, to very temporary summer homes in the mountains.changechanged The Spanish made moveable sun-baked bricks, utilizing the craft from home of forming the mud into blocks in wooden molds, a craft which is still used today.
"Adobe" is a Spanish word derived from the Arabic "atob," which literally means sun-dried brick. Today's bricks have a small bit of asphalt mixed in to stabilize them. After the mud is poured into mud forms, a board is drawn across the top of the forms to take away excess mud and make the surface flat. After the bricks are dried they are taken from the
forms and stacked. Adobe is the ideal
thermic material for building
in a climate which has drastic
temperature shifts. The
mass of the adobe walls will absorb heat and
radiate it back out into the
house at night. The converse is also true. Thus
the swing in temperature inside the house is
very mild. Her work reflects
years of cultural immersion in Central
Africa, where she spent her youth, combined with a
European and
American education and a lifelong
exploration of vernacular architecture. Of greater weight in her creative personality is her social activism, which unfolded during the 13 years that she worked and collaborated with the Menil Foundation. She helped imbue such projects as the Menil's Afro-American art collection, and the Rothko Chapel in Houston with a sense of transcultural ecumenism. Armed with a dose of ecological poiesis, in 1995 Swan moved to the Mexican-Texas Border to create an economical and
thermally efficient prototype of mud-brick housing for local working families, drawing from her prior experience with Egyptian adobe architecture. A fine conduit for cultural synthesis, Swan's architecture is a rare distillation of her own kind of radical mysticism, embodying ancient and contemporary ecological knowledge and sophisticated architectural solutions open to the local master builder's culture and seasoned experience. I chose Kitty Hawk because it seemed the place
which most clearly met the required conditions. In order to obtain support from the air it is necessary, with wings of reasonable size, to move through it at the rate of 15 or 20 miles per hour. If there is no wind movement, your speed with reference to the ground must be the same. If the wind blows with proper speed, support
can be obtained without movement with reference
to the ground. It is safer to practice in a wind, provided
this is not broken up into eddies
and sudden gusts by hills, trees, and so forth. Posted by Michael, May 11th
, 2007. Recently we gave Gina’s cob hogan a new layer of plaster. We started off by poking at the existing earthen plaster; raking off the loose stuff. It was worn out, but what do you expect after 15 years? All around the base of the walls the earthen plaster had touched the ground. Moisture worked it’s way in. We had to remove about 3 inches in and 1 to 2 feet up in some spots. The wall underneath was still in good shape. We filled in with a stiffer cob mix, rich with
sand. We under cut the new
cob, rather than
plopping it on the ground again. Continue…
Adobe Healing Posted by Michael, May
2nd , 2007. This adobe wall
suffered a water leak. I
inspected the adobe bricks beneath and
filled with an earthen plaster. Local materials
were sourced for the plaster. Some of the mud
came from a near by ditch and some came from the wall itself. In
the end the 10 foot walls received
a lot of mud! Explore the life of the cowboy who spent
up to four straight months in the saddle,
often in the same clothes every day.  He ate every meal at the chuck wagon, drinking nothing but coffee and water.  At night,  if a storm came and the cattle started running, it was the cowboy's job to jump
on his horse to head off the cattle and round them up
safely.  It was a dangerous job
riding through the dark, with prairie dog holes all
around, not knowing if the next turn would be your last.  And did you know that cowboys really
did sing to their cattle?  The singing was supposed to soothe the cattle and it really did.  Two cowboys on guard would circle around with their horses on a walk.  If it were a clear night with the cattle bedded down and quiet, one man would sing a verse of a song, and his partner on the other side of the herd would sing another verse.  The cowboys would go through a whole song that way, right through the night. This has an old Southwest Pueblo Indian Adobe flare, including roof poles, ladder, archway, cactus, dressing around the bird entrance and a raised nesting floor to prevent the potential of water seeping in under the birdhouse into the nesting area.indian adobe birdhouse This comes plumbed with three drains and four natural air conditioners (vents), two on each side.  It is insulated with 7/8" cedar.  By removing three screws on the bottom you can take the bottom off for a complete spring cleaning.  The roof provides a platform for fatherbird to scout the area for any badguys while protecting motherbird and babies.southwest adobe birdhouse Will you draft them yourself, farm them out to an experienced draftsperson, or hire a contractor or architect? Once you begin, how long will it take? An adobe contractor in Albuquerque or Tucson, can complete the average turn-key, custom adobe in four months- building one house in the spring, another in the fall, or two a year. The average owner-builder, working with fewer tools, a smaller crew, and less experience, will be lucky to finish in a year. All of these questions lead to the last question, ""what will it cost ? ..adobe and rammed earth are do-it-yourself materials, very forgiving to the novice,YOUR COST PARAMETERS Above:   Custom   two-story   adobe in   Corrales,   New Mexico   Below:      Adobe   interior by   builder -   artist Gary   Williams of   Tucson,   Arizona       and very green for the environment. We have codes, so we must build to a standard. And we have lifestyle expectations. Most who want a nice adobe or rammed earth home have higher . This is the VOA Special English Development Report. This week in our report we are going to talk about adobe. No, not the information technology company in California, Adobe Systems. We mean the
traditional building product made of soil and other
materials. Adobe is shaped into bricks that are laid
one on top of another and used as a low cost way to build walls and houses.  Adobe
structures at Tumacacori National Historical Park in southern Arizona. The park protects the ruins of three Spanish colonial missions. Adobe becomes a sticky mud when it is mixed with water. Liquid adobe mixture can be poured into containers called molds. This way the adobe can be shaped into bricks of the desired size. Even if
you already have
construction experience, you are
on a learning curve when it comes to
Earthbuilding. Do not wait until the last minute to submit
plans for a permit. Start early in knowing the local codes,
working with your subs and building
inspection department about the plan. Evaluate time and materials. We often suggest to
owner-builders that they start the plans/materials evaluation process two to three years before breaking ground. adobebuilder@juno.com BackPacs CDROM (Earthbuilders' Encyclopedia) weekend classes The nearby picturesque wooded village of Tesuque is home to people from all walks of life. To learn more about the art and history of Tesuque Pueblo, click here. Pojoaque Pueblo Located fifteen miles north of Santa Fe on US 84/285, the Pojoaque Pueblo is probably the most visibly developed
Pueblo in the Northern New Mexico
area. Its shopping center, bank, tribal
buildings, Cities of Gold Casino and Hotel, and the Towa Golf
Course run right along the
highway. After being decimated by smallpox 100 years
ago, the Pueblo was abandoned and not
inhabited again until 1915. The
piñon-covered foothills of the
Sangre de Christo Mountains offer a
still-tranquil setting for this
upwardly-mobile 21st-century Pueblo, which is
careful to maintain a balance between the ancient past and the far-reaching future. After nearly a century past, it is difficult to imagine the exhilaration avant-garde creators felt when technology altered their perception of space and time. More difficult yet, is to re-enact the synergy with which their body experienced speed and
boundless space, as wheels and
wings mechanically extended it.
The Futurist's and Dadaist poetic tropes of the body seen as an erotic machine attest in some measure to deep
transformations in the psyche. ASK THE EXPERT
ADVICE Links to the Ask the
Experts page Quentin Wilsonand Associates,
specializes in solar adobe design and construction. He grew up in the South Valley of
Albuquerque, New Mexico where he watched
adobe bricks being made. In the fifth grade, he made miniature adobes on cookie
sheets in his mothers oven in order to construct house models for a class assignment. It will take eight weeks for a Denver company to cut the bricks, and they will be installed in March or April. Income from the bricks is just one of several fund-raising activities the Poudre Landmarks Foundation is undertaking to pay for
restoration and museum exhibits. A grant
from the State Historical Fund is also helping to
cover costs. Purchased by the
city of Fort Collins, the former home
of John B. and Inez Romero is located on the corner of Romero and 10th Street. To test for strength, drop a finished brick from a height of 3 to 5 feet to see if it breaks. Sometimes if the sand is too fine, the finished bricks will be weak. Straw is
sometimes, even traditionally, added to the mix when
making adobe bricks, but offers no particular advantage. asphalt Because an adobe wall, either with bricks or using a rammed earth technique, is massive it will hold heat or cold. That means needs to be put on the outside of
your wall so once your wall is
warmed up it will maintain the stablity of the temperature of the building. A south facing adobe wall may be left uninsulated in order that it can collect heat during the day. It should be thick enough that it remains cool on the inside during the heat of the day but should be thin enough that the heat can be transfered through
the wall by evening. The
earliest date is given as 1843 and the first structure appeared
around 1845-46 when an 80 foot
square adobe structure was
built and aptly called Fort Adobe.
Indian misbehavior forced
the post to close by 1848. Attempts were made to reestablish the post, but it was finally blown up in frustration, providing the Panhandle with its first landmark ruins. In 1864 the was fought when Colonel itCarson and his force of 335 men (with 75 Indian allies) fought hostile Kiowas, with assorted Apaches, Comanches, and
Arapahoes near the ruins. The casualties were three dead with 15 wounded for the Army
and Indian casualties were
estimated to be 60 killed or wounded. Ten years later, merchants opened a trading post/ restaurant/ saloon a mile from the original ruins. Trade with the area buffalo hunters flourished until June1874 when the took place. The main building was constructed of sod - in the fashion of Kansas buildings - and although the complex was overwhelmed by a force estimated between 300 to over a thousand Indians, the defenders held their own with only three dead (one an accident after
the fight was over). Indian
Tribes of North America
Coloring Book by Peter F.
Copeland read more $3.95 Decorate the
backdrop of a Pueblo Indian village with 38
stickers, including a medicine man,
woman with baby, other native people with examples of their crafts. Pueblo Village Sticker Picture Book: With 38 Reusable Peel-and-Apply Stickers by Steven James Petruccio He had heard stories about active volcanoes along the Missouri, a mountain made of salt, and a tribe of white Indians descended from Welsh explorers who reached
America before Columbus. There was no good reason to discount any of these things. Lewis and Clark made the land real for Jefferson, but what they found was perhaps no less fantastic than what he imagined. No mammoths roamed the prairies, but there was a monster much more ferocious, the "verry large and turrible" grizzly bear.There were no mountains of
salt, but the Rocky Mountain range turned out
to be a sight more spectacular
than anyone dreamed. It was also the hard
fact that dashed the best hopes for the expedition.
Hassan Fathy is best known for devising and promoting in arid areas the social organization of public housing built cooperatively by the owner-dwellers, with the guidance of the architect and under the supervision of
craftspeople, using local -- preferably free
-- materials such as earth, reed, straw or stone. One third of the planet's population lives in earthen structures. Fathy's oeuvre is that of a modern architect schooled in European curricula who took advantage of desert architecture in harmonious and
climatically beneficial ways. On top of each layer of tamped, filled tubes, a loop of barbed wire is placed to help stabilize the location of each consecutive layer. Window voids can be placed in two ways, either by rolling the filled tube back on itself around a circular plug (forming an arched header) or by waiting for the earth
mixture to set and sawing out a gothic or
pointed arch void. A round skylight can even be the top of the dome. It is not recommended to exceed the 14 diameter design in size, but many larger structures have been created by grouping several beehives together to form a sort of connected village of domes. Naturally this lends itself to residential applications, some rooms
being for sleeping
and some for living. There is a 32' dome being constructed in
the St. Ignacio area of
Belize, which when finished will be the centre dome
of a eco-resort complex.
Located 22 miles north of Santa Fe off NM 502, the San Ildefonso Pueblo lies in a lovely country-like area between Nambe and Los Alamos. The ancestors of these people originally lived at Bandelier and Mesa Verde, Colorado, but due to a long-lasting drought, those earlier sites were abandoned. The identifying landmark of the
area is the extraordinary Black Mesa, which can be
seen for miles around. It was from the top of Black Mesa that the San Ildefonso people fought off Spanish soldiers in 1694.