(Click on the Info to Go icon to sign up for East Ridge updates emailed directly to you) Email questions or comments to: ERHSsuggestion@sowashco.k12.mn.us You are invited to attend the East Ridge High School fall season head coach meet & greet opportunity. This event will take place on in the Cafeteria.Wednesday, January 28 from 7:00 to 8:30 pm @ Lake Junior High Aaron Harper, Matt Kraft, and Gretchen Romain will talk about the progress of the
school and introduce the coaches that have joined the Raptor team so far. 1/2 hour later, the last student came up to the professor who was sitting at his desk
preparing for his next
class. He attempted to put his exam on the stack of exam booklets already there. "No you don't, I'm not going to accept that. It's late." The student looked incredulous and angry. "Do you know WHO I am?" "No, as a matter of fact I don't," replied the professor with an air of disdain.. "DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?" the student asked again.. "No, and I don't care," the imperious professor sneered. "Good," replied the student, who quickly lifted the stack of completed exams, stuffed his in the middle, and walked out of the room. is a school in and one of seven public high schools in . East Ridge is the largest school in Lake County. It was however intended to hold only 1,800 students at the most, This was not large enough for the ever growing population of Clermont it has more than doubled in the last five years. In total there are 3,084 Students enrolled as of
January 14th. East Ridge has a good reputation and is known for its athletic programs as well as its band department receiving many national and state awards. The picture displayed is from 2002, now there is a new building labeled the "Freshman Building" officially building 21.East Ridge High School Clermont, Florida Lake County East Ridge High School [] edit History East Ridge High School was constructed at 13322 Excalibur Road in . It is
currently the newest high school in . On October 27th, 2007 the Marching Knights went to the Ancient City Presentation of Bands in St. Augustine where they received a final score of 85.5, winning their first ever competition. Although the band tried their hardest they could not make it to the finals at the state competition in 2007. They placed 9th in class 5a with a score of 82.34. On October 26th, 2008, the Marching Knights won another competition at St. Augustine. The final score of the band was an 86.6. This was the second year in a row when the band successfully won the Ancient City
PResentation of Band competition. Their score was the highest ever received by the band and with this score, the ERHS band also blocked at State Compettion. This was a very big accomplishment for the band, and they are all very proud. The East Ridge Community will be able to purchase East Ridge t-shirts, sweatshirts, hats, letter jackets, and other spirit wear!!! Go Raptors!! Posted byThe East Ridge Teamat 12:41 PM 0 comments Tuesday, November 25, 2008 Happy Thanksgiving I think I can speak for the entire East Ridge planning team and wish you a very happy Thanksgiving. We are thankful for our new East Ridge Community, and look forward to working with you. Enjoy your day!! Posted byThe East Ridge Teamat 10:31 AM 0 comments Friday,
October 31, 2008 Meet The Planning Team Carolle Neisius is currently a School Counselor at Park High School and will be one of the school counselors at ER. Although most of the players in the Jazz Band are drawn from the Concert Band, some students are encouraged to join the group by Craig Fryer. Jazz The Millbrook High School Mixed is directed by Ms. Alexis Clements. Considerably larger than the Concert Band, the Mixed Chorus performs in many of the same concerts in which the Concert Band plays. Chorus In addition to the ensembles listed above, Millbrook High School also has a select choral group
called the Madrigals.