Love cures people--both the ones who give it and
the ones who receive it.       --Dr.
Karl
Menninger   Any man who may be asked in
this century what he did to make his life worthwhile, can respond with a good deal of pride and satisfaction, "I served in the United
States Navy" Ensign
Lovering died during
the Battle of Midway
when was torpedoed by the Japanese submarine and sunk 6 June 1942 while aiding in the salvage of (CV-5). Four torpedoes were loosed towards . Two missed; one passed under striking , and
the fourth hit the destroyer
amidships, breaking the destroyer
back. As the debris from the explosion rained down and the ships lurched apart, it was apparent that was doomed after breaking in two. Eric George and Chief of the Boat Senior Chief
Electronics Technician (SS) Ron Brooks
with the 2008 CSS-1
Battle Efficiency (Battle “E”) award, given to the squadron’s
submarine crew that best demonstrates technical proficiency and continual mission readiness
throughout the year.  “I’m very proud
of this team of warriors,” said Harrison.  “This is
the strongest
crew that I’ve ever
seen. They really look out for each other, and I am proud to be their
commanding officer.” (U.S. Jefferies designed the
; his contribution was commemorated in the so-called ,
which became a
standard part of the (fictional) design of Federation
starships. Jefferies' starship
concepts arrived at a final
saucer-and-cylinders design that became a template for
all
subsequent Federation space vehicles. Jefferies also developed the main set for the bridge (based on an original design by Pato Guzman) and used his practical experience as a airman and his knowledge of
aircraft
design to come
up with a sleek, functional, bridge layout. The storms produced some
wind damage in the Olive Hill area of Carter County around 3:30 pm (). Figure 3 Figure 3 - Radar image of severe storms over Kentucky. The storms continued to move northeast through Greenup County and then into Lawrence County, OH () and eventually into Gallia County, OH and Mason County, WV. Nickel sized hail was reported
along
the path of the storm.
USS (CA-26), at right, attempting
to
tow USS (CV-8)
after she had been disabled by
Japanese air attacks on 26 October
1942.
Northampton
Hornet Official U.S. Navy Photograph, now in the collections of the
National Archives (# 80-G-33897). Scott Dyben NS020815 316k October 26 1942, in tow. Cruiser (CA-26) made three attempts to take the carrier in tow, but additional Japanese attacks
frustrated
these efforts.Hornet Northampton then steamed to the
South Pacific, where she participated in a series of raids and other operations that climaxed in the Battle of Coral Sea in early May. In this action, in which she was damaged by enemy bombs, her planes
attacked
two Japanese aircraft carriers, helping to sink and damaging
.YorktownYorktownShohoShokaku Quick repairs at Pearl Harbor put into good enough condition to participate in the Battle of Midway on 4-6
June 1942. The plan also included
the seizure of Tulagi, a small island
in the southern
Solomon Islands, where a seaplane
base would be set up for potential air operations against Allied territories and forces in the South Pacific. Although Japanese Admiral , commander of the Combined Fleet, was concurrently planning an
operation
that he hoped would lure the Pacific fleet into a decisive showdown in the central Pacific, he detached some of his large warships to
support the operation and placed Inoue in charge of the
naval
portion of the operation. 9 x 8 in, 12 x 5 in, 48 x
40 mm, 22 x 20 mm
guns Aircraft: 2 Curtiss SC Sea Hawk
Motto: "Proud and Fearless" For other ships of the same name, see . USS Helena The third , a , was the third ship of the to be named for
the city of , . She was named while building after the cancellation
of .USS (CA-75)Helena
Baltimore-class heavy cruiser United States Navy Helena Montana Helena CL-113 Diorama
by Norman Bel Geddes, depicting combat air patrol intercepting the incoming Japanese dive bomber raid on USS (CV-5), at about noon on 4 June 1942. Most of the Japanese planes were shot
down by F4F-4 fighters, but several survived to drop bombs on or near . Markings on the F4Fs are not accurate for this time period, as the fuselage stars are too small.Photo #:
80-G-701874 Battle of Midway, June 1942 While Fletcher moved north with his two flattops and their
screens in
search
of the enemy,
Japanese search planes located the oiler and her
escort, and misidentified the former as a carrier. Two waves of Japanese planes first high level bombers and then dive bombers attacked the two ships. , her antiaircraft battery crippled by gun failures, took three direct hits and sank quickly with a heavy loss of life. After the surrender of on , the James River Squadron,
including , retired up
the river to where pursuing Federal ships were repulsed on . Norfolk, Virginia 10 May 1862 Patrick Henry Drewry's Bluff 15 May was designated an academy ship in May and underwent appropriate alterations to this end. In October , housed the floating at Drewry's Bluff, where instruction for 52 began under the superintendency
of . The carrier was due to enter service in December
2000, but, following the breakage of a propeller blade during
long-distance trials, this was
delayed to April 2001. In June
2001, the carrier took part in
exercises in the Mediterranean and in December 2001 left to take part in Operation Enduring Freedom
where
it was
stationed
in the Arabian Gulf. It returned to
its home port of Toulon in July
2002. 2) Memo book of John M. Funck (Midshipman),
Masters Mate, Fall 1809-Spring 1810. Details all enlisted personnel on board alphabetically and by
watch, quarter, and
station bill. Refers to
John
Rodgers (Commanding Officer) and
Midshipman L. Kearney. 3) Sheet of
reenlistment advance pay receipts
preprinted for
(c.1826)Constitution Crane,
William M., Captain, USN ALS dated
23 October 1823, Navy
Yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.