 - Directory of volleyball articles, information, and websites. About.com: Volleyball
 - All there is to know about volleyball rules and regulations. With a free online
magazine and links to related resources. Basic Volleyball Rules  - Keep up with the latest happenings on volleyball on the sands. Search for events or tourneys. Beach Volleyball News  - Learn about Canada's premier volleyball team for the deaf. Read through featured
articles about them and their recent progress. Deaf Volleyball Canada  - Organization aims to improve volleyball's officiating standards by giving members better analysis of the sport's rules and settings. Heartland Volleyball Officials Association  - Official site of Ultimate Systems Limited, a supplier
for a variety of beach volleyball gear and equipment. Home
Court  - Fan site dedicated to one of the most celebrated Latin female volleyball players in the world. Leila Barros  - Provides source of equipments, player profiles and museum, with membership guide. Multi Volley  - Site
provides guidelines for volleyball officials to
use in making decisions when officiating games. Professional Association of Volleyball Officials  - Overview of sports in Saipan, with news and details of rules. Roc Ball  - Lists precautionary measures to avoid unwanted accidents when playing volleyball. Tips To Prevent Volleyball Injuries - News, league schedule and results, and player profiles for beach volleyball in Oklahoma.
Oklahoma
Amateur Volleyball Association  • 
- Designed to foster greater interaction between
professional beach
volleyball and its fans. Contains store and discussion forum for paying members. Pro Beach Club  •  - Beach volleyball camps for high school age players in Orange County, CA Ratcamp Beach Volleyball  •  - Offering local volleyball leagues, tournaments and court construction in Arizona. Sand Sports Beach
Volleyball  •  - The famous player's website including information about volleyball schools and clubs, future and historical events, volleyball encyclopedia and news. Sand Storm - Natalie Cook  •  - SBV offers a variety of Beach Volleyball Events. Including beach volleyball classes, private lessons, jump training,
leagues, tournaments, social events, youth camps and free online video lessons. South Bay California Beach Volleyball Events  •  - Offering beach volleyball as minor specialty and elective course at Dep. of Physical Education and Sports Science, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. [Requires Flash.] Tefaa Beach Volley  •  - A forum and photos website for the club.  •  - News, professional events, locations and contacts. California Beach Volleyball Association (CBVA)  •  - Team profiles, schedule and results for this men's and juniors beach club in Lewiston, Maine. Fern Gully Volleyball  •  -
Offering beach tournaments along the
New Jersey shoreline
throughout the summer. Home of the 1999 Miller Lite Pro Beach Volleyball Series. Division levels include Pro, AA, A, BB, B and Novice. Jersey Shore Volleyball Association , the first beach volleyball sponsored tour had $52,000 in prize money. The tour had stops in San Diego, Santa
Barbara, Laguna Beach ($5,000), Manhattan Beach ($10,000), The King of the Beach ($12,000), and The World Championships ($15,000).In 1980 , another major sponsor joins beach volleyball, the Miller Brewing Company.In 1981 , the tour becomes national with $69,000 in total cash prizes awarded for
six events.In 1982 , $137,000 in
total cash prizes is awarded for
12 tournaments. The AVP is formed on July 21, to protect players' interests and to preserve the integrity
of beach volleyball.In 1983 , the AVP Players go on strike.
The AVP begins running its own tour. In 1985, the Bolle Sunglasses become a major AVP sponsor. The total tour prize money reaches $275,000.In 1984 , the AVP Tour includes stops in eight different states - California,  Massachusetts, Arizona, Florida, Colorado, Illinois, New Jersey, and Hawaii. InIn
1985 , AVP Pro Beach Volleyball
receives cable television coverage
and is shown for the first time in beach volleyball history on ABC's Wide World of
Sports.In 1986avp.comReferences The libero also reads and analyzes the defense and is, essentially, the captain of the defense. Kelsie is very vocal and shes always calling out what shes seeing for the other defenders. Liberos take the majority of free ball and serve receive passes because passing is their area of expertise, said co-captain Alex Graves. If theres a ball in between
two players the libero is going to take it; she has precedence [in the back row]. As the teams second quarterbacknext to the setter, according to Coach Papineau, the position involves a lot of leadership and experience. With the addition of the position on high school teams, collegiate programs are beginning to see many more specialized liberos who have been playing the position
their entire career. Also, with athletes getting bigger every year, it allows a smaller, more agile player play in a game which, in the past, has been much like the best rides at an amusement parkyou have to first pass the height requirement in order to get in. Questions? Email the Pioneer - -
Walla Walla, WA 99362 WebTeam In 1983 , the AVP was reorganized and led by Leonard Armato along with his company, Management Plus. Armato united the men and women players of professional beach volleyball together into one organization. The new Association of Volleyball Professionals Tour has grown and capitalized on the fact they have
one property that could
maximize sponsor
dollars, marketing opportunities, media coverage, and prize money.On May 31, 2001 Today, the AVP stands alone as the only pro beach volleyball tour in the country and has a cooperative relationship with USA Volleyball and the Federation International de Volleyball
(FIVB). Beach volleyball history, the beginning/font> , people start playing volleyball on the beaches of Hawaii. Also, many people say volleyball started in Santa Monica, California where they first started playing 6 on the
beach.In the 1920 , the first doubles beach volleyball game is played in Santa Monica, California. Also, in the 1930 beach volleyball appears for the first time in Europe.In the 1930 , the first official two-man Beach Volleyball tournament is held at Will Rogers State Beach, California. -> -> Talkxbox Database Xbox
Games Outlaw Volleyball combines the fun gameplay of Virtua Tennis 2K2 with the outrageous humor of Outlaw Golf and South Park. The game is sand volleyball in 16 different environments featuring 16 characters, each of whom are available as teammates or opponents. Feel the action as you Spike or Die with fabulous
babes and guys with attitude. Up to four people can compete as they dive, spike, jump and lob the ball for total victory. Vball  - Contains history of volleyball, rules and tactics in Brazilian and English language. Voleimania Online  - Collection of images and
news on volleyball sport and teams
with articles and
fan forum. Volley Pics  - Presents
comprehensive information about the sport throughout the different regions in world. Volleyball Country  - Introducing the largest annual traditional women volleyball competition among teams throughout the US. Volleyball Festival  - Community allowing
members to
discuss the finer point of the game. Volleyball Forums
 - Provides information on the history of the sport in addition to profiles of hall
inductees. Volleyball Hall of Fame  - Huge online gallery of the world's largest collection of volleyball
memorabilia. Volleyball Memorabilia
 - Provides information on
volleyball camps, tournaments, players, beach and indoor events, coaches, and links. Volleyball Seek  - Features news, event coverage, and a calendar of upcoming matches. Volleyball World Wide  - Offers news, rules, and gameplay tips for all forms of volleyball. Volleyball.com She is the libero. The libero
(pronounced lee-BEH-roe) is a type of player that has never before been seen in collegiate sports. This new position came into being in college volleyball in 2002 and was adopted by high school programs in 2006. A defensive specialist would be the best way to explain it, said sophomore
libero and co-captain Kelsie Butts. Five California beaches for the circuit are Santa Barbara, Will Rogers
State Beach, Sorrento Beach, Laguna Beach, and San Diego. Also in the 1950, the first volleyball
tournament
takes place in Brazil. The tournament is sponsored by a newspaper publishing.In the 1950 The first Manhattan Beach Open in beach volleyball history takes place in 1960. In the 1960, Open tournaments are held on thirteen beaches in California. , the first Hermosa Beach tournament is played. Ron Von Hagen and Henry
Bergman win the title.In 1970 , a
tournament is held in San Diego, California. The tournament has 250 fans and $1,500 in total prize money. Dennis Hare and Fred Zeulich win the tournament.In 1975 , a beach volleyball tournament is held at Will Rogers State Beach. The tournament has a
$5,000 first place prize and about
30,000 spectators. Also in 1976, Ron Von Hagen retires with 62 Open wins. Ron Von Hagen is now considered
in beach
volleyball history as the Babe Ruth
of Beach Volleyball.In 1976 , Jose Cuervo Tequila becomes beach volleyballs first major sponsor. Also, the substitution of the libero doesnt count towards the teams limited total number of substitutions for a game, making it much quicker for her to run on and off the court. She wears the
different colored jersey to help the referees in this quick substitution. I think its made the womens game faster and more exciting. At the top levels of the game, its made it necessary to have smarter and more powerful attackers because the defense on the other side of the net is much more dynamic, said Carolyn Papineau, Whitmans
head volleyball coach. Beyond the
impact that the position has had on the game, the libero position created a niche in volleyball for smaller, more nimble players who might never have had the opportunity to play at the collegiate level before. Its definitely been a cool opportunity for
girls my height to play just because, you know, Im not some 6-foot hitter, said the 5-foot-5-inch Butts.
Also, its nice because you have a purpose. - News, event locations and results, player profiles and contacts for the professional beach volleyball tour managed by the AVP. Association of Volleyball Professionals  •  -
Information about beach volleyball in general and
about the Sydney Beach Volleyball League and Sydney Beach Volleyball School. Beach Volleyball  •  - News
and database searchable by player, tournament and history.
Beach Volleyball Database  •  - Player profiles, contacts, news and pictures; based at Ka'anapali Maui, Hawaii. Beach Volleyball Maui  •  - News, results, rankings, calendars, interviews and pictures for beach volleyball in Victoria, Australia. Beach Volleyball Victoria  •  - News from FIVB World Tour and AVP Tour collected on one site,
photo gallery and some links. BVWord - Beach Volleyball World  •  - News, contacts, tournament results, league logistics and youth program details for this Canadian non-profit organization. - History of volleyball, links and rules; in Portuguese and English. A Voleimania On-Line   - Explanation of the game, rules of play, and the places where it's played for this volleyball variation developed and played on the island of Saipan in the Northern Mariana Islands. Rocball   - Links, history
of the
sport, past tournament results, and
a hall of fame with a focus on Peruvian players. Stjepanidze's Volleyball Hall of Fame   - Holyoke, Massachusetts. Volleyball Hall of Fame   - History, FAQs, rules, organizational contacts, and links for amateur, professional, collegiate, and Olympic variations of the sport. Volleyball World Wide Help build the largest human-edited directory on the web. Want to post your
opinions and thoughts on the AVP? Now you can with our message boards. Message Boards Recent Discussions: AVP
Wallpaper's are now available for downloading. Get yours today! AVP E-Team Members are tasked with weekly missions for the chance to win great AVP prizes. Prizes may include free tickets, VIP passes, autographed memorabilia, AVP "meet and greets", and more! Join the AVP E-Team Stay in tune with Volleyball
Nation by signing up to receive FREE AVP e-newsletters.