The proportion is considered correct when both feet are weight bearing and are neither broken forward nor broken back. In most cases, the hoof wall should contact
the ground with the medial
and lateral sides making even contact. The proximal or upper 2 inches or the
hoof wall dictates its natural slope. All dishes or flares should be removed until they become part of this natural slope. Remodeling of abnormally flared or shaped feet is a commendable practice. There is a lot of strong prejudice against this procedure because it involves vigorous rasping of the outer hoof wall. This old-fashioned way of thinking is outdated and should be
discouraged. The hard, frozen winter ground can
cause severely broken hoof walls which may require one or more special
shoeings in the
spring. This can be costly and delay spring conditioning programs. The best way to prevent winter problems is to provide your horse with proper hoof care, according to Dr. R. D. Scoggins, Equine Extension veterinarian at the University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine at Urbane. "Horses need a regular hoof care program throughout the year to maintain soundness and
longevity." "Over one-half of all lameness cases occur in the feet," he says.
"The old axiom 'no foot no horse' is as true today as it was in the past." The horse's hoof is a complex structure made up of bone, cartilage, joint surfaces, and sensitive and insensitive laminae which work like velcro to hold the hoof on, he
explains. Some high performance horses will need to have their shoes reset more frequently. Your farrier and veterinarian can help determine what type shoeing schedule is best for your horse. Many non-show or non-race horses may not need shoes. "In fact, if the
horse
is not routinely ridden,
trimming on a regular basis may be all that is needed," he says. (This is certainly true for drafters working in a small farm situation, i.e., not pounding surface roads.) Easily applied (spray) non-messy, penetrating treatment for use on thrush, seedy toe, white line disease and other bacterial and fungal problems associated with the sole, frog and hoof. Huuf magic is non-staining, non-toxic, non-caustic and safe on hair and skin. A unique blend of jojoba oil, and benzathonium chloride in a buffered strength for maximum antifungal and
antimicrobial activity. 473ml -$31.99 Straight Arrow Thrush
Treatment Provides
full and complete treatment for the entire hoof. Please tell other horse lovers
about us!   Erin KC Designs
What is the Hoof Project?The Hoof Project (HP) is an electronic journal focused
on the foot of the horse. The HP seeks to be both an educational and a reference resource for educated horsemen and equine professionals who have an interest in
learning more about the foot of the horse. is a term used to describe
the stage of laminitis when the
hoof begins to fail mechanically. Founder Figure 3. Mechanical failure of all lamellar attachments, which forces the coffin bone downward under the weight of the animal. Sinker: are also distinguished by various causative agents. Types of Laminitis   occurs when one limb bears excessive weight during recovery from injury to the opposite (contralateral) limb.Support Laminitis Figure 5. (Road
Founder)  occurs when a horse is overworked on a hard
surface.Traumatic Laminitis Figure 6. describes laminitis caused by overeating, inactivity, or carbohydrate overload.Metabolic (Biochemical) Laminitis describes laminitis secondary to diseases such as a
pituitary adenoma which produces an excess of corticosteroid in the system (i.e. Each month the company highlights a specific recipe as its ecipe of the Month All kinds of ingredients are used in these recipes, with everything from
packaged and prepared types of foods to fresh produce, fruit and meats of all kinds. The fans of Pampered Chef recipes claim that the wonderful tasting meals they prepare are more often the result of using the cookware and not the recipes themselves. The reviews
for all of the Pampered Chef recipes are complimentary however,
citing them as cost effective, flavorful and time
saving. I gave her some more encouragement and she began to walk. I could see now that she was experiencing pain in both front legs and was walking very slowly and dragging her hooves. Now being concerned, I contacted our equine vet who would not be available until the following day. When the following day rolled around, I didn't see our mare lying down, but instead she was standing. She was standing, though, in a very peculiar manner with her weight shifted toward her back legs while pushing back on the heals of her front hooves. Having
your horse ready would
include that the horse be caught, fed, watered,
cleaned and trained to accept trimming and shoeing. Provide your farrier with a proper shoeing environment out of the wind and rain, sheltered from the hot sun, on a clean and dry level place. Most farriers
require payment upon completion of the job, but if your farrier sends out bills, pay yours promptly upon receipt. How does this save you money? Having the horse trained and providing a good working area allows the farrier to do his best work for your horse. The
ground surface of the hoof wall is divided into the toe, quarters, and heel. At the heel, the wall turns forward to form the bars that converge toward one another. The sole, comprising most of the ground surface of the hoof, conforms to the inner curvature of the wall and to the angles formed by the wall and the bars. The structure of the sole is similar to that of the wall, with tubules running
vertically as formed by papillae of the sole corium. Change
the name (also URL address, possibly the category) of the page. View wiki source for this page without editing. View/set parent page (used for creating breadcrumbs and structured layout). Notify
administrators if there is objectionable content in this page. Something does not work as expected? Find out what you can do. General Wikidot.com documentation and help section.
Wikidot.com Terms of Service - what you can, what you should not etc. Wikidot.com Privacy Policy. The HP is designed to be continually edited to allow updating of previously published material and the addition of
new information as
it becomes available. The
HP is currently organized into the , , , and sections. Additional sections are
being planned at this time.Organization: Subscribers to The
Hoof Project will have 24-hour access to the website and the ability to participate by asking questions, requesting bibliography searches and more.Why Subscribe? Sponsor Links Mustad - The Hoofcare People Mustad provides a wide range of products that have been developed over the years by popular demand from Farriers suggestions and market needs. Hoofcare & Lameness Magazine is a
quarterly journal presenting new information to help
veterinarians and farriers treat and prevent common lameness.
The Hoof Project Foundation is a non-profit foundation created to offer help
and
hope to horses with laminitis and their owners through
rehabilitation, education and research. If a horse is found with
a nail still in place in the foot, don't remove it. Call your veterinarian who can radiograph the foot with the nail in place to determine which structures are involved. Prevention is, of course, wise. Abscesses or bruises can be limited by keeping the horse's environment free from debris, including nails and sharp stones. Shoes and pads will protect hooves from a rough, hard terrain. Monitor your
horse's feet. Picking them
before and after rides should be basic. No hoof, no horse - and that's no fun.Don't Let Hoof Injuries Keep You Off Your Horse Shoulder Lameness                     B. Forearm Lameness                     C. Knee Lameness                     E. Cannon and Splint Bone Problems                     F. Fetlock and Pastern Problems                II. Therapies and Treatment Modalities for Lameness
                     A. Cold and Heat Therapy                      B. Topical
Anti-inflammatory Medications and their Use.
                     C. Various Technological Anti-inflammatory Modes of Treatment                      D. Prescription Anti- inflammatory Medications                      E. Nutraceuticals Natural Healing Products.              III. Common Hoof
Disorders                     A. Sole bruising and
Abscesses                     B. Corns                     C. Sand Cracks                     D. Watch headings for an "edit" link when available. Append
content without editing the whole page source. Check out how this page has
evolved in the past. If you want to discuss contents of this page - this is the easiest way to do it. View and manage file attachments for this page. A few useful tools to manage this Site. The constant
thickness of the cornified layer results most commonly from regular superficial exfoliation. When a specialised cornified structure has a particular toughness, as in nails and hair, little or no exfoliation occurs and the cornified structures must slowly migrate away from their original position. mitotic Thus, the specialised cornified structures of the
hoof are the wall, the sole, the frog and periople. Central Sulcus of Frog, or Lateral Furrow of Frog 7. White Line 8. Hoof Wall The Legs The Front Leg 1. Coffin
Bone, or Third Phalanx 2. Second Phalanx, or Small Pastern BR> 3. Large Pastern, or First Phalanx 4. Humerus BR> 5. Radius 6.
Pisiform BR> 7. Large Metacarpal 8. Trapizoid,or Ulna 9.Splint Bone 10.
Sesamoid Bone The Hind Leg 1. The Femur or Tarsus 2. The Stifle Joint 3. The Tibia 4.Hock Joint BR> 5. Long Pastern, or Third Phalanx 6. The short pastern, or Second Phalanx 7. Pedal bone, Coffin Bone, or Third Phalanx 8. Cannon Bone 9. Splint Bone 10. Sesamoid The Hock Joint 1. the tibia 2. fibular tarsal bone, or calcaneus 3. talus, or tibial tarsal bone. "Navicular disease usually affects fast-growing, large horses, such as Thoroughbreds, Quarter horses, warmbloods and some Standardbreds," Dr. Vischer says. "Ponies, Arabians and draft breeds are usually not affected," she
continues. Typically most victims are between two and 10 years old. Sometimes the problem is the horse is too big for the size of its foot. It is not always "big horse, small foot" though, nor is it really use-specific, but affected horses are usually athletic. Horses used to race, rope, compete in dressage, or barrel race are normally those
which show the signs of intermittent front leg lameness associated with navicular disease. "Navicular disease is one of the most common cause of front limb lameness. It is easy to diagnose, but frustrating to treat," notes Dr. This
cutting edge horse hoof repair technology, combined with my 22 years of experience exclusively in the "Art of Hoof Repair" can place your horse back into competition without missing a beat!If you wish to extend me the opportunity to place your horse back into the excitement you may contact me by Phone or E-mail: or toll-free at 1-877-278-7897 for horse hoof repair! rustysequine@worldnet.att.net | | | | | | | | | HORSE HOOF REPAIR MY SERVICES VIEW MY WORK RUSTY'S REVIEW EDUCATIONAL TESTIMONIALS RUSTY'S PRODUCTS YOUR MARKETPLACE LINKS WEB
RINGS CONTACT RUSTY
Within the hoofwall there are several bones of the foot, importantly the pedal bone or main foot bone.  The hoofwall is attached to the living tissue of the foot and its bones by two layers tissue known as laminae.  The layer closest to the inside of the hoofwall is insensitive while the inner one is sensitive, both layers are living tissue. The bottom view of the foot is dominated by the frog
- a large (hopefully) rubbery triangular structure which supports the inner bones, provides shock absorption and grip and the sole. Veterinary Information On Proper Equine Care & Feeding NAVICULAR DISEASE IS A COMMON LAMENESS PROBLEM IN
HORSES CEPS/Veterinary Extension 2938 Vet. Med. Basic Sciences Bldg. 2001 S. Lincoln Ave. Urbana, Illinois 61802 Phone: 217/333-2907 By Linda March Information Specialist University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine The navicular (distal sesamoid) bone sits behind the coffin (distal phalanx) bone and is the smaller of the two bones in the horses' foot. There are many possible causes for navicular syndrome. One is thought to be increased pressure inside the bone causing pain. There is also a chronic form of the disease thought to be caused by adhesion (scar tissue)
between the navicular bursa and the deep digital flexor tendon. Another cause of chronic navicular disease is arthritis of the navicular bone and associated structures. A Practical Guide to Horseshoeing provides the horse enthusiast with detailed information
about horseshoeing. Extensively illustrated and laid out as a technical manual indexed by chapter, section and paragraphs, this book contains invaluable historic knowledge of horseshoeing. The anatomy and physiology of a horse's foot,
pastern and legs are studied, and information on horseshoer's tools,
machine-made shoes and nails are given. Handmade horseshoes from bar iron or
steel are examined, as are borium-treated horseshoes. Both normal and
corrective shoeing is discussed for the riding horse, polo horses, hunters and jumpers, and draft animals. Care of the horses feet between shoeing periods and care of unshod horses is explained as well. HORSE DANCED IN THE STREET You See he Was a Circus Horse Once and Had Never Forgotten. Deep down, in that part of Barney's anatomy which would be called his soul, if he were a man instead of only a
big, broad-backed, bay horse, there has slumbered through the long years of his servitude as a truck horse a spark of the old-time pride and fire which made him arch his neck and prance about the ring when he held a post of honor among the
circus horses of Barnum & Bailey's Show. That the tiny spark had not fled out altogether would never have been known except to Barney's driver, John Murphy, had it not been for a wheezy
hurdy-gurdy whose one tune was a jig to which Barney had often
praced into the ring. Understanding laminitis requires a basic knowledge of the normal inner workings of a horse’s foot, and the forces that disrupt them.  In the normal horse, the forces of weight bearing are transmitted down through the bones of the leg to the third phalanx (distal phalanx, coffin bone, pedal bone or P3), which is located within the hoof
wall. The third phalanx is connected to the hoof wall by the
laminae. Laminae run from the top of the foot to the bottom.  Laminae projecting outward from the outside of the third phalanx (the sensitive lamina or corium) interlock  with laminae projecting inward from the hoof wall (the
insensitive lamina). The effect of these interlocking tissues is
to greatly increase the surface area which connects the third phalanx to the hoof wall. And limited enrollment assures you of ample one-to-one, individualized instruction that is thorough and professional. HORSES
You will have an unlimited number of good horses to work with. All trimming and shoeing is done for practical purposes on live horses. We do not simulate anything, providing you with real world skills you will benefit from upon graduation. HANDS ON EXPERIENCE Our practical emphasis and hands-on approach to your skills development are unique to this school. You'll learn, and
apply, the fundamental techniques at the forge, and at the horse, to give you the versatility and flexibility you need to help you maximize your shoeing options. You'll use this book again and again! Dozens of color and black and white photographs of abnormal foot conditions, therapeutic horseshoes, and care/maintenance procedures. Chapters on daily maintenance and lay-up care,
farrier-veterinarian-owner teamwork, emergency first
aid, and up-to-date explanations of angular limb deformities,
flexural deformities (club feet), laminitis, heel lameness, white line
disease, navicular problems, coffin joint lameness, and much, much more! It
probably originated in the Burgundy wine region of eastern France but is now found
anywhere that grapevines can be grown, from England to New Zealand. It is vinified in many different styles, from the elegant, "flinty" wines of Chablis (wine) to rich, buttery Meursaults and New World wines bursting with tropical fruit flavours. It is an important component of many sparkling wines around the world, including Champagne.
Radiographic (x-ray) examinations may be required to determine
the extent of the
damage to the bony structures of the foot and the collateral cartilages (sidebones). Your veterinary surgeon will thoroughly clean the sole, sulci and frog, debriding and curetting (removing) all abnormal, dead and infected tissues, under general
anaesthesia, if necessary. The clean wound is then packed with sterile gauze soaked in antiseptic solution (e.g. dilute povidone iodine) and the foot is bandaged. The horse will often require treatment with
antibiotics, active against both aerobic and anaerobic bacterial infections and so the cleaned area may be swabbed, to determine which bacteria or fungi are present, in order to determine the most appropriate antibiotic or antifungal treatment to use. Beneath the
inner sensitive layer lies a pad-like shock absorber that reduces concussion for the horse's hoof and his entire limb, called the deep digital cushion. The signs of thrush will be noticeable at the deep crevices of the frog (sulci) when a black, puss-like
discharge accompanied by a foul odor is present. Thrush is likely to take over a hoof that is left in unsanitary conditions. A wet environment that primarily consists of urine and acidity from manure is a breeding ground for the anaerobic bacterium that are attracted to any necrotic (decayed) tissue that exists on the horse's frog. Although the
symptoms may vary from horse to horse, inflammatory reaction in both the navicular bursa and the navicular bone cause pain and dysfunction. The navicular bone is a small boat shaped bone which can cause tremendous problems to a horse. It lies deep within the hoof
and nestles behind the last two bones in the foot. It is a type of bone known as sesamoid and there are a number of these bones in the limbs. This is a progressive forelimb lameness, developing over many
months. Consultant Agreement The Pampered Chef® prides itself on having the best business opportunity in the industry. There are three great ways to earn: The Pampered Chef® is a brand you can believe in with quality, versatility and value. By
holding just two Cooking Shows a week, you can earn $850 - $950 a
month.*Sell our products *Based on Show averages
from 2003 Share the great opportunity you have found with others to help them achieve their dreams.Offer our business opportunity
Build your own team of Consultants, and youll receive additional commission on both your personal sales and the sales of your personal recruits. You'll also enjoy special awards and experience the satisfaction of helping other Consultants reach their goals.Develop a successful team     Currently John has brought his "What is Good Horse Shoeing" book into the year 2008 - fully revising for
clarity, updating in knowledge, and electonically digitizing.  It is now available to you online right here and only here.  As well, John has agreed to give freely his body of work entitled "Horse Tales" to the equine community.  This is a work centering on insights and observations from a professional farriers perspective.  There are gems in here that
every horse owner should read about.       If you do nothing
else, at least pick up Horse
Tales, it's absolutely , simply enter your first name and email address in the form above and you should get your first issue right away.  Check your inbox every week thereafter for
another issue.  This will definitely boost yourfree of chargehorse sense! If the bone has already started to change because of the
disease, corrective shoeing may not help. Medications to increase the blood supply may also be given. Navicular disease may also cause secondary lameness. The coffin joint may swell and become sore as a result of the problem with the navicular bone. Analgesic or other drugs for pain may be given, but caution should be used. Some of these drugs may cause ulcers and renal disease. As a last resort, the nerve supplying the back of the heel may need to be surgically cut. hoof repair * quartercracks * hoof wall separations * hoof wall abscess * hoof bar cracks * hoof wall disease * hoof wall resection * hoof wall reconstruction Are quartercracks, hoof wall separations, hoof wall abscess, hoof bar cracks causing poor performance
in your horse? Is your horse plagued by hoof wall disease and in need of a hoof
wall resection or hoof wall
reconstruction? Walls are longer in the dorsal portion of the hoof (toe), intermediate in length in the lateral portion (quarter) and very short in palmar/plantar portion (heel). Heels are separated by an elastic, resilient structure named the 'frog'. In the palmar/plantar part of the foot, above the heels and the frog, there are two oval bulges
named the 'bulbs'.
pedal bone When
you pick up the hoof and you look at its lower surface, you can
see the wall's free margin,
encircling most of the hoof. In the central area, you can see the triangular frog. PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AT THE ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE, LONDON, AS A SLIGHT
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF HIS ABILITY AS A TEACHER, AND IN RETURN FOR MANY KINDLY
SERVICES, THIS VOLUME IS GRATEFULLY INSCRIBED BY PREFACE Stimulated by the reception accorded my 'Common Colics of the Horse,' both in this country and in America, and assured by my publishers that a work on diseases of the foot was needed, I have been led to give to the veterinary profession the present volume. While keeping the size of the book within reasonable limits, no effort has been
spared to render it as complete as possible. This has only been achieved by adding to my own experience a great deal of the work of others. Click Here! hoof repair * quartercracks * hoof
wall separations * hoof wall abscess * hoof bar cracks * hoof wall disease * hoof wall resection * hoof wall reconstruction Horse hoof repair by Rusty's Equine
Hoof repair Copyright 1999 Rusty Freeman and Rusty's Equine Hoof Repairs. This page is designed and maintained by Data Design Group, Ltd. Some of the foot conditions and lamenesses
discussed in individual chapters: Acute laminitis, hoof wall trauma, puncture wounds,abscesses, angular limb deformity, atrophied frog, bridle lameness, bruising (wall, heel, sole, coronary band), canker, coffin joint degeneration, contracted heels, coronary band
jamming or swelling, Cushing's disease, flat feet, flexure deformity ("club foot"), gait interference, cracks, wall separations, keratoma, navicular-type lameness, osteomyelitis, pedal osteitis, quittor, seedy toe, bowed tendon,
selenium poisoning,
support limb lameness, thrush, hoof wall (white line) disease. The book is
available from Hoofcare & Lameness and sells for $17 plus $4 postage and handling. To order call 978-281.3222 or print out/copy and paste the form below for email orders. Special offer!Subscribe to Hoofcare & Lameness Magazine and receive Understanding the Equine Foot and four issues of H&L for only $74 (plus $4 shipping)! In the same time and position that it takes to clean out
a hoof, everyone from
backyard enthusiasts to top
professionals can safely and effectively round their horses
hooves using the RidersRasp". Its easy to
eliminate undue stress to your barefoot horses and lengthen the time
they stay in balance by using
the
RidersRasp" for hoof rounding maintenance between
professional trims. Your horse will benefit from easier breakover, more symmetrical hooves, and reduced hoof wall splitting and chipping. You will benefit from knowing you are taking the best care possible of your barefoot horse. Neither Rusty Freeman nor the web-page maintainer of www.Quartercrack.com, assume responsibility for statements or opinions of contributors or advertisers on this website.
Likewise, Rusty Freeman, Rusty's Equine Hoof Repairs and the web-page maintainer of www.Quartercrack.com specifically disclaim any responsibility or liability
for damages or injuries as a result of any construction, design, user
application, of information contained on
www.Quartercrack.com, or
related pages. January 12, 2009 by Equine Rescue France Last year we were alerted to the case of a Shetland in dept. 17 that had severely overgrown feet. As the
Maire had already been contacted we spoke to the SPA who contacted a more local organisation to take the case on. Unfortunately we now know no action was taken, and when the original person who reported it told us
this we immediately started communications with the DDSV to get something done. Last week we were contacted by the DDSV for that department to inform us that
they had been out, and that the owner has now
been notified to take action to
rectify the pony’s condition. We will of course be
following this up shortly to find out what improvements have been made. An American Horse Publications Award-Winner! Explaining the latest research of and therapy for foot injuries and lameness By Fran Jurga, Hoofcare & Lameness Publisher Foreword by Hilary Clayton MRCVS, McPhail Chair in Sport Horse Lameness, Michigan State University Color illustrations
by Chris Pollitt MRCVS, Australian Equine Laminitis Research Unit, University of Queensland, Australia It's here! The put-it-in-your-pocket, throw-it-on-your-dashboard, never-be-without-it quick reference
guide to all horse foot problems -- at a cost everyone
can afford!