Auto History 1921 33 year-old Cecil Kimber (1888-1945) joined Morris Garages (whence "MG") with a great interest in body styling, coach building and sports cars. 1924 The first MG car was built, a sporting four-seater tourer on a modified Morris Oxford
chassis. The factory telephone number - Abingdon
251 - provided the starting point for most MG's chassis VINs
(Vehicle Identification Numbers). 1925 The first purpose-built MG sports car was built - In the end, DFW drivers took home first place trophies in five different classes. Cody Case took home the AS trophy, with Robert Jones in his new Honda S2000 CR just behind him. Robert was running on the street tires that came with the Honda, while Cody
was running R-comps. The drive home was marred by the typical extra traffic on Highway 6 and Interstate 35, but the highlight was the stop for dinner. Eight of us stopped off at the always yummy Elite Circle Grill in beautiful Waco, Texas for a great meal. Chicken
Fried Steak and
Chicken Fried Chicken seemed to dominate out selections, with only Doug Covington checking his intake in his effort to take home the prize in the Ditch the Spare Contest. Inside, the seats were upholstered in leather, with lovely contrasting piping, and the dashboard was adorned with black crackle-finish paint and toggle switches, evoking memories of fighter planes and the Battle
of Britain.MGBMGB
As with all classic cars, the best of the breed attracts the highest prices, so it isnt surprising that these cars have the highest values. However, even for the very best restoration of the most desirable model, prices are still at a level that wouldnt buy a half-decent Austin-Healey of the same vintage. One is for parts, a 1968 MG Roadster, the second car is a 1968 MGBGT, it’s disassembled and sitting in the covered safety of my brothers garage in Idaho where the rust Gods can’t find it. The parts
car is for it, and
for a soon to be designed “boot” couch. The third car is a 1972 MG Midget that is the priority car to get restored. I’ve owned one or more of the cars since 1987. The only issue which wasnt resolved was that we are still
looking for someone to take over the final details for our members-only Vermont weekend trip in May.The hotel has been booked. Bob, Brenda and Tom are ready to lead tours once our group gets there.Everything is available from previous trips and we have a
couple of past organizers ready to help answer any questions. For more information please click on the Next Generation Register above.             NEW!! The first five years of the are now available on CD - .MGB DRIVER click here     John Thornley, grandson of John Thornley former General Manager of the MG Car Co with MG1 given to Thornley upon his retirement from the company. Chevrolet Camaro Pontiac Firebird Dodge Challenger 2010 Chevy Camaro Ford , the Mustang gets
new exterior sheetmetal, an upgraded interior,
improved ride and handling, and more power from the available V-8 engine for 2010. Coupe and convertible body styles return, as does the optional for the
coupe. Like the , the
2010 Mustang will have 2+2 seating with a small back seat and V-6 or V-8 power. Anonymous  ()Start a New Thread asReply as Get credit for your thread Subject: Please enter some text (at least 3 characters). Message: Please enter some text (at least 3 characters). Quote: One or more of your tags have exceeded the 30 character limit. Cancel
Posting... Note: You can enter up to
[REMCHARS] additional characters. Did you know you can edit the content of this page by clicking EasyEdit?