An open-faced sandwich does not satisfy this condition. open-faced "sandwiches" [11] Trenchers [4] Panera Bread Co. Qdoba Mexican Grill [2] Sandwich may also be used as a verb meaning to position something between two things. [11] [] edit List of regional
sandwich styles - Chile, melted cheese and fried ham Barros Jarpa - Chile, melted cheese and thin fried beef Barros Luco - Brazil, melted cheese and roast beef Bauru -USA, bacon, lettuce, and tomato BLT The
internet is a great resource for information - you don't even need to go to the library! No more fines - just select a topic - read it and then throw it away - better still create your own folder, or book, of interesting facts & information! An ideal Educational Resource! Places and Geography Index The group of South American presidents is giving priority to the subcontinent’s physical integration through the building of 300 major infrastructure projects (roads, bridges, gas pipelines, dams, and so on), at an estimated cost of US$30 billion. Of course, this initiative is still in the declaration-of-intentions stage, and a number of NGOs and social movements are already rising up against this vision of regional unity that puts major engineering projects before social and cultural needs. Currently, the joining of people is witnessed in the neighborhood parades, public balls, and Samba Schools. Let the travel professionals at AR Tourism arrange the perfect vacation for you, while saving you money and eliminating the inconvenience of handling overseas arrangements. AR Tourism - Brazil Vacation Travel Agency > > History of
The Carnaval Home Carnival      Also called the Brazilian Shield, this region extends from the Amazon south and includes the plateaus and savannahs to the borders of Bolivia and Paraguay. The states of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias are here as is the region of the Pantanal. The federal district of Brazilia is here. Main cities include Campo Grande, Goiana, and Cuiaba. The weather is generally hot and humid. Southeast
Brazil      This region of Brazil enjoys a more moderate climate with cooler winters. The area includes the states of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Espirito
Santo and Minas Gerais and
extends from the mountains to the sea. Here you'll find the major cities of Belo Horizonte, Rio do Janeiro, and São Paulo. Southern Brazil      Also known
as the Parana Basin extending south from São Paulo to Uruguay and Argentina. Upon
taking power in 2003 the Brazilian president engaged in a flurry of diplomatic initiatives, notably with South
Africa, India, Russia, China, and the Arab countries, as a result of which Brazil signed a rash of agreements, doubled its exports over four years, and gained new international stature. Brazilian troops
command the peacekeeping force in Haiti and Brasilia is eying a permanent seat on the UN Security Council. The future of this intense diplomatic activity depends in large part on Brasilia’s
relations
with its neighbours. During the , thick slabs of coarse and usually stale bread, called "trenchers", were used as plates. After a meal, the food-soaked trencher was fed to a dog or to beggars, or eaten by the diner. Trenchers were as much the harbingers of as they were of disposable dishware. The immediate cultural precursor with a direct connection to the English sandwich was to be found in seventeenth-century , where the naturalist observed that in the taverns beef hung from the rafters
"which they cut
into thin slices and eat with bread and butter laying the slices upon the butter" explanatory specifications that reveal
the Dutch was as yet unfamiliar in England. Middle Ages open-face sandwiches [4] Holland John Ray [5] belegde broodje The first written usage of the English word appeared in 's journal, in longhand, referring to "bits of cold meat" as a 'Sandwich'. Citizens of the following countries DO NOT need a visa to travel to Brazil for tourism purposes: Andorra- Argentina - Austria - Bahamas - Barbados - Belgium - Bermuda -Bolivia - Bulgaria - Chile- Colombia - Costa Rica - Czech Republic - Denmark - Ecuador- Finland - France -Germany - Great Britain - Greece - Hungary - Iceland -Ireland - Italy - Israel - Liechtenstein - Luxembourg - Malaysia - Malta - Monaco - Morocco - Namibia - Netherlands - New Zealand - Norway - Paraguay - Peru -Philippines - Poland - Portugal - San Marino - Slovenia - South Africa - South Korea - Spain - Surinam - Sweden - Switzerland - Thailand - Trinidad & Tobago - Tunis - Turkey - Uruguay - Vatican. At the same time, a new generation of South American presidents, generally placed on the left of the political spectrum and keen to establish their independence from the United States, has come to power in the region. Actually, the Latin American left is surreptitiously shifting from ancestral anti-Americanism to pragmatic management without the Americans. The most striking example of this is doubtless Argentina and Brazil’s repayment of their IMF loans in 2006. The International Monetary Fund, the emissaries of which even recently would arrive looking like viceroys ready to dictate the rules of good management, found itself sidelined: It has nothing to say to those who no longer owe it anything. Another sign of the change in
regional geopolitics is that the United States has not intervened in the numerous squabbles that have flared up between neighbouring countries over the past few months (Argentina-Uruguay, Peru-Venezuela, Bolivia-Brazil, etc.). The one-quarter piece of Antarctica
as defined above would come under the control (although not necessarily sovereignty) of those six South American countries which had open to the South Pole (i.e. north-south lines which did not touch or include any other nation s South American territory). This approach would greatly diminish the sectors presently claimed by Argentina and Chile, would eliminate the British sector, and would give small, but significant, sectors to , and (thanks to the ). Brazil would have the largest sector. Frontage concept was never an official Brazilian government position, but it was widely accepted by Brazilian geopoliticians and others with an interest in Antarctica. The first classified Factbook was published in August 1962, and the first unclassified version was published in June 1971. The 1975 Factbook was the first to be made available to the public with sales through the US Government Printing Office (GPO). US Department of State - Travel Advisory Travel Warnings are issued when the State Department decides, based on all relevant information, to recommend that Americans avoid travel to a certain country. Countries where avoidance of travel is recommended will have Travel Warnings as well as Consular Information Sheets. Brazil: O Programa Nacional de DST e aids do Ministio da Sae responsel pelo combate ao HIV e aids. It is said that Lord Sandwich was fond of this form of food because it allowed him to continue playing cards, particularly , while eating without getting his cards greasy from eating meat with his bare hands. Edward Gibbon [6] John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich cribbage [7] The rumour in its familiar form appeared in 's (Neichatel,
1770), translated as 1772; Grosley's impressions had been formed during a year in London, 1765. The sober alternative is provided by Sandwich's biographer, , who suggests Sandwich's commitments
to the navy, to
politics and the arts mean the first sandwich was more likely to have been consumed at his desk. World Fact Sheet Following three centuries under the rule of Portugal, Brazil became an independent nation in 1822. By far the largest and most populous country in South America, Brazil has overcome more than half a century of military intervention in the governance of the country to pursue industrial and
agricultural growth and development of the interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a large labor pool, Brazil
became Latin America's leading economic power by the 1970s. Highly unequal income distribution remains a pressing problem. UNAIDS Epidemiological Fact Sheet This article first appeared in 2001. This material is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between you and your doctor.
Boehringer Ingelheim iMetrikus, Inc.
National Library of Medicine donations AEGiS presents published material, reprinted with permission and neither endorses nor opposes any material. All information contained on this website, including information relating to health conditions, products, and treatments, is for informational purposes only. It is often presented in summary or aggregate form. It is not meant to be a
substitute for the advice provided by your own physician or other medical professionals. Always discuss treatment options with a doctor who specializes in treating HIV. If it was initially perceived as food
men shared while gaming and drinking at night, the sandwich slowly began appearing in polite society as a late-night meal among the aristocracy. The sandwich's popularity in Spain and England increased dramatically during the 19th century, when the rise of an industrial society and the working classes made fast, portable, and inexpensive meals essential. [9] It was at the same time that the
sandwich finally began to appear outside of Europe. In the , the sandwich was first
promoted as an elaborate meal
at supper. By the early 20th century, as bread became a staple of the American diet, the sandwich became the same kind of popular, quick meal as was widespread in the Mediterranean. Brazil: Big,
Beautiful and Bold      Brazil is a country of superlatives: The largest country in South America with 8.5 million square kilometers extending over almost half the continent The fifth largest country in the world São Paulo is the largest city in South America First in the world for the huge variety of primate amphibian and plant species Third for bird species Fourth for butterfly and reptile species The sixth most populous country      Though the great beaches and beautiful scenery are splendid, there is much more to Brazil. Add the vast expanses of tropical rain forest, the Amazon river basin, the natural attractions, and the irrepressible Brazilian culture and there is a lot to see! For this purpose, the working group
collaborates closely with national AIDS programmes and a number of national and international experts and institutions. The goal of this collaboration is to compile the best information available and to improve the quality of data needed for informed decision-making and planning at national, regional and global levels. The Epidemiological Fact Sheets are one of the products of this close and fruitful collaboration across the globe. Geography of Brazil Increase your knowledge of Facts about the Geography of Brazil with some brief, but essential features, fast Information & facts about the country. relevant facts and data and info about Facts about the Geography of Brazil. Details of the location of the country, its inhabitants and
population. Discover how big Brazil is with facts about the land size. What is the name of the Capital city and the name of its currency? In reaction, some Latin American intellectuals are already voicing worries about the purported
dangers of “Brazilian
imperialism”. For the small
countries, such fears regarding the continent’s giant – the most populous, richest, and most developed (at least in some of its regions) country in South
America – are founded. However, Brasilia has neither the intention nor a tradition
of crushing its neighbours, as the tragicomic nationalisation of Bolivia’s oil and gas sector shows. Last 1st May Bolivia’s president Evo Morales nationalised the country’s gas, oil, refineries, and gas pipelines by decree. Before consolidating the South American Community of
Nations, the Member States
will have to incorporate the many existing organisations
into this community, for example, the Andean Community, Amazon Co-operation Treaty, Mercosur, and Rio Group. The South Americans also take part in some very pompous “Summits of the Americas” with the United States and Canada (but without Cuba) and “Iberian-American” high masses with Spain and Portugal (this time with Cuba). And let us not forget that the peoples of the region also have the feeling of belonging to a Hispano-Caribbean-American community and of living in a Portuguese-speaking world in the case of Brazil and a Spanish-speaking world for the others. At the end of the day, South America has no true political or even cultural identity. The South Americans do not identify with their subcontinent, despite the fact that its geographic unity is clear as day when one looks at a map of the world. Location: Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean Brazilian Land Size : 8,456,510 sq km Brazilian Climate / Weather : mostly tropical, but temperate in south Brazilian Population : 184,101,109 Brazilian Capital City: Brasilia Brazilian GDP: $1.379 trillion (2003 est.) Brazilian Main Industries : textiles,
shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore, tin, steel, aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and equipment Brazilian Agricultural products : coffee, soybeans,
wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa, citrus; beef Brazilian Currency : real (BRL)   Interesting facts and information about the Country and its Geographics. A fast, educational resource detailing the location, land size, capital city, main industries, currency and agricultural products of the country.A concise Fact Sheet covering a range of relevant topics and interesting
facts. In some cases, the distinction between the regions is subtle, in others, such as the contrast between Amazonia and portions of the arid Northeast is dramatic Northeastern Brazil      This is the dry, sometimes drought-ridden, interior containing the states of Bahia, Sergipe, Alagoas, Paraiba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceara, Maranhao and Piaui. The main cities include Salvador da Bahia, Recife, Natal,
Fortaleza and São Luis. You can expect hot and dry weather or hot and humid conditions depending on location. Northern Brazil      This region is also called the Guiana Shield extending from the Andes to the east from the borders of Peru
Columbia Venezuela French Guiana, Suriname and Guyane. The great rainforests are in this region. The states of Para, Tocantins, Roraima, Amazonas, Amapa, Rondonia are in this region. The main cities include
Belem, Macapa, Manaus, Boa Vista, Porta Velho, and Rio Branco. In the past, the pictures of such a spectacle would have filled the company shareholders’ hearts with fear, moved chancelleries, and doubtless triggered a virulent reaction from Washington. Many governments have fallen and blood flowed in the course of Latin America’s history for much less than that. However, this time the Bolivian coup de force took on the airs of an operetta with outdated refrains, for if such a hue and cry is to spark emotion, you need a sizable enemy, as when La Paz nationalised Standard Oil’s assets in 1932 or confiscated Gulf Oil’s properties in 1966. At the time these American firms had become veritable states within the state and bridgeheads of Washington. But what do you say when the main “invader” this time is a Brazilian company, and a state-owned one to boot, a company whose boss was appointed by Lula, whom Morales himself considers his “elder brother”, and Lula and the entire Brazilian left defend Bolivia’s right to control its natural resources? At the time, no one even raised the idea of South America as a political entity. The Monroe Doctrine of 1822, which proclaimed “America
for the Americans”, long served as a
justification for numerous
US actions and intervention throughout the continent. The region’s main priorities were often set in Washington – until “9/11”, i.e., 11 September 2001. Map showing the location of Brazilian Antarctica. The administration of Brazil's Antarctic policy and interests are shared by various government organizations. Several Federal universities and institutes also participate in the Antarctic research program. As is
the case
with Argentina and
Chile, the military
(especially the and the ) play a major role in Brazil's Antarctic program. Air Force Navy [] edit Comiss o Interministerial para os Recursos do Mar (CIRM) National agency responsible for the elaboration and implementation of the Brazilian
Antarctic Programme, Programa Ant rtico Brasileiro (PROANTAR), and for maintaining the all-year station Comandante Ferraz. The commission is under the direct command of the Brazilian Navy. [2] [] edit
Brazilian National Committee on Antarctic
Research (CONAPA) Geography - Topography - Characteristics - Information - Info - Products - Currency - Industries - Geography - Topography -
Characteristics - Info - Products - Currency - Industries - Capital - Population - Climate - Weather - Land Size - Location - Brief - Interesting - Geography - Topography - Characteristics -
Info - Products - Currency - Industries - Geography - Topography - Characteristics - Info - Products - Currency - Industries - Capital - Population - Climate - Weather - Land Size - Location - Brief - Interesting - Important In tribute to King Momo, the King of the Carnaval, people join in merry-making revelry as they prepare to begin abstinence throughout the 40 days of Lent. The roots of the
Carnival can be traced
back to 1723 when settlers from the Portuguese Islands initiated the Entrudo, a street game of water, mud, and food tossing which involved everyone in the city. In 1840, the first of the balls took place - a masquerade ball where dancing to polka and waltzes
kept people moving throughout the event. Street parades became part of the festivities about ten years later,
leading to the samba (a fusion of European, African, and Cuban music) merging into the familiar sounds of Carnival by 1917. With Brazil’s independence and the Spanish colonial empire’s break-up, the countries in the region freed themselves willy-nilly from the yoke of the European powers. Only in 1856 did the idea of a “Latin America” make its first appearance. Curiously, the term was coined in
Paris by a certain Torres de Caicedo. This exiled Colombian poet, who was influenced by “pan-Latinism” (an idea in vogue in Paris at the time), saw Latin America as a subdivision of the Latin world. This notion, which became a hit in the Hispanic world, long remained unknown to both Brazil (which still finds it hard to consider itself a Latin American country, even today) and the United States. Time spent in transit from
and to you are additional. Plan accordingly. There are one or more embassies of Brazil at the different countries. In Brasilia, Sao Paulo and Rio are the respective consulates for each country... Unpaid participation in a scientific/academic seminar or conference sponsored by a research or academic institution... One more element of Carnival is the balls or dances, originated in Italy, taking on various shapes from the public Cinelandia Ball
to the lavish Gala
Ball. While looking and participating in all the carousing of Carnival, one cannot help but notice the African influence on the culture. Over six million slaves came to Brazil, leaving their imprint on movement, sound, and savory fare. Many of the costumes seen at the balls and parades include bones, feathers, and grass, reminiscent of African traditions. The
presence of feathers symbolizes the strength to prevail over adversity and resistance while becoming a strong, divine person. DUTILLEUX Christian, , Flammarion, Paris, 2005, 300 pages. PICKARD Jacky (Ed.), , Karthala, Paris, 2004. ROUQUIE Alain, , Fayard, Paris, 2006, 409 pages.
VAN EEUWEN Daniel (Ed.), , Editions de l’Aube, La Tour d’Aigues, 2006, 349 pages.For more information on the subject: Lula Le Brésil de Lula. Les défis d’un socialisme démocratique à la périphérie du capitalisme Sandwiches are commonly taken to work, school or to be eaten as part of a . They generally contain a combination of vegetables, meat, cheese, and/or a variety of
sauces. They are widely sold in restaurants and . picnics packed lunch cafes The term sandwich is occasionally used (informally) in reference to ; these normally consist of a single slice of bread topped
with meat, vegetables, and/or various condiments. Strictly speaking, an open-faced "sandwich" is not a sandwich, as it has a single slice of bread instead of two, and thus has toppings instead of a filling. The open-faced "sandwich" also has a history differing from that of the true sandwich, having originated between the 6th and 16th centuries, with stale slices of bread used as plates called "" (whereas its relative, the modern sandwich traces its roots to the Earl of Sandwich instead). In
the United States, the ruling in the case of v. The origins of Carnival can be tracked centuries back to Greek celebration honoring the God of Wine Dionysus. This festival influenced the creation of Bacchanalia, a tribute to Bacchus, the Roman equivalent to Dionysus. Inspired, the Saturnalia fe developed (Saturnalia literally
translates into excess of the senses) leading to the Catholic Church using the fiesta as a lead up to Lent.     Christian Dutilleux Christian Dutilleux is a journalist and documentary filmmaker who has lived in Rio de Janeiro for the past twenty years. He is a specialist of contemporary Brazil. His book Lula is the first biography of Brazil’s current president.. Lula’s diplomacy confirms Washington’s loss of control over South
America, at the risk of
spawning in turn fears of Brazilian hegemony. Not so, says the author, who is banking on a revival of South American integration. Why are the South American Heads of State only now starting to meet to talk about regional integration two centuries after our countries
gained their independence? The committee is under the administration of the Ministry of Science and Technology of Brazil. SCAR [3] [] edit National Commission on Antarctic Matters
(CONANTAR) National advisory board to the in charge of the formulation and implementation of the National Policy for Antarctic Affairs (Politica Nacional para Assuntos Antarticos
- POLANTAR). The commission is directly linked to the and the . President of Brazil Ministry of External Relations Presidency [4]