    It also includes links to the railroad-related pages of     agencies associations, corporations and individuals     covering the Northwest, British
Columbia, and Alaska.        The author would like to thank the following     individuals for their contributions:     Bruce Butler     Mike Davison     Ruth Eckes          Brian Ferris     Dean Ferris     Bob Giffin     Tim Harris     Matt Kelley     Bill Kuebler     Rick Leach     Craig Reese     Larry Schrenk          James M. CURSE / STARVING CLASS     Oregon
Shakespeare  Andrew Traister, dir.Weston THE TEMPEST    Oregon Shakespeare  Edward Hastings, dir.Prospero THE MAJESTIC KID (Premier)     Oregon
Shakespeare  Edward Hastings, dir.Judge Billy FILM / TELEVISION
LIVING WILL    Independent    Jim Taylor, dir.Dr. Issacs THE FOUR DIAMONDS      Disney Films   Peter Werner, dir.Blue Knight MIDNIGHT CHRONICLES      Independent    Paul Burgess, dir.Narrator THE FUGITIVE    Warner Bros.   R. W. Goodwin, dir.Daniel    IMPORTANCE OF
BEING EARNEST    Bellevue Community College Bellevue University is the education leader focused on students who want to reach their career and life goals. Bellevue University is an innovator in developing degree programs that meet students where they are. We offer traditional 4-year bachelor's degree programs, a leading-edge 3-year bachelor's degree program that combines classroom and online learning with career work experiences, accelerated bachelor's degree completion programs, and master's degree programs in a variety of areas. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 91.7 males. For every 100 females
age 18 and over, there were 86.9 males. The median income for a household in the city was $35,293, and the median income for a family was $44,438. Males had a median income of $35,507 versus $20,791 for females. The for the city was $15,928. About 5.0% of families and 7.3% of the population were below the , including 5.3% of those under age 18 and 13.1% of those age 65 or over. per capita income poverty line And about 50% of those are through
doors left unlocked. An unlocked lock is not a lock! 51% of break-ins occur during daylight. 49% occur after dark. 8,600 break-ins a day. 1 every 13 seconds.   Most burglaries are the result of forcible entry.*
Every exterior entryway
into your home needs a deadbolt with a full 1" throwbolt. Treat the door from the garage to inside the house as an exterior door. Exterior doors should be solid, 1-3/4" hardwood, with secure frames. An intruder's greatest fear is being seen. The study of history may lead to several career paths. It is a necessary prerequisite
to pursue a career in archives and records management, professional careers that involve the preservation of historical materials. Those who study history may go on to careers in 'public history', that is, managing the disposition of historical structures, and developing them for public
appreciation. Additionally, a history major is a good basis for studying law. The following programs are available to all club members who are interested in receiving coaching.Coaching fees are $30 per month (paid quarterly in advance or annually with dues). This monthly fee allows you to participate in any or all of the programs below.For more information, contact the individual coaches, or the : (206) 547-1583. boathouse manager Martha’s
Moms The Moms have been rowing competitively since the early 1980s.    History The 1.45 acres of land on which our present day wetland sits has had a varied history. In the early 1950s the land on the East Side of the property was used as a
mink & fox farm owned by the Elkin brothers, Fred and Wil. They sold the farm to the Howe family in 1952. Under the terms of the expanded agreement, ACS will now provide desk-side support services for Symetra’s headquarters facility in Bellevue, Washington. “ACS has consistently impressed us with the breadth
and depth of their
capabilities since we began our partnership in 2004,” said Troy Olson-Blair, Chief Information Officer, Symetra Financial. “Adding desk-side support for our headquarters facility is a natural next step. ACS’ first-rate service, support, and responsiveness have enhanced efficiencies in many areas for Symetra.   About History The discipline traditionally commences with the
invention of writing more
than 5,000 years ago. It
is concerned with the development of human society through the interpretation of the record left by people in times past. History is organized into local, regional, national, international, and global disciplines. All are mutually complementary. In addition, historians cover subject matter within their areas of study. These subjects usually include, but are not
confined to, political,
social, economic, religious, intellectual, and military history. Almost all the core courses will contain a mix of these subjects, and particular courses will contain other emphases as well to reflect the subject area and history. ROMEO & JULIET   Capulet  
Shakespeare Theatre
Company  David Muse, dir. JULIUS CAESAR    Shakespeare Theatre Company   David Muse,dir.Julius Caesar ANTONY & CLEOPATRA     Shakespeare Theatre Co.  Michael Kahn,dir.Enobarbus KING LEAR    Utah Shakespeare  J.R. Sullivan, dir.Lear THE MATCHMAKER     Utah Shakespeare  Roger DeLaurier,
dir.Vandergelder SHADOWLANDS
  Village Theatre   Martin Charnin, dir.  C.S.Lewis Kwikset exterior locks offer a number of features tested and proven to resist kick-ins, saw attacks, picking attempts, wrench-offs and prying. Be informed. Insist on the best security available.       * FBI Statistics: ADDITIONAL SOURCES: U.S. Department of
Justice,
Bureau of Statistics: ; Alaska State Troopers; Bellevue, WA
Police Dept; Newport
Beach, CA Police Dept; Simon Hakim, Temple University; .Uniform Crime Reporting ProgramNational Crime Victimization StudyNational Crime Prevention Institute 14. January 2007 · No Comments announced that it has been awarded an expansion to its multi-million dollar contract with , a leading life insurance and financial services company. The expanded agreement will add desk-side support services to ACS’ existing five-year contract, which commenced in 2004. ACS Symetra Financial ACS provides complete information technology (IT) infrastructure services for Symetra’s affiliated companies, as well as cross-functional and business process outsourcing (BPO) solutions. or of any race were 0.47% of the population. census [2]
population density White Asian Hispanic Latino There were 942 households out of which 32.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.6% were living together, 7.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.2% were non-families. 29.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 17.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR   .   Utah
Shakespeare  Kate Buckley, dir.DrCaius MAN AND SUPERMAN     Kansas City Rep   Sharon Ott, dir.Ramsden COMEDY OF ERRORS     Yale Rep    Ken Albers, dir.Egeon LADIES OF THE CAMELLIAS    Yale Rep  James Bundy, dir.Cocquelin THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE    Seattle Rep  Tina Landau, dirSociety Gent MISALLIANCE    Seattle Rep   Sharon Ott, dir.Summerhays LIGHT UP THE SKY     Seattle Rep  
Doug Wager, dir.Owen GHOSTS     Geva Theatre  Tim Ocel, dir.Manders THE FRONT PAGE     Milwaukee Rep   Joe Hanreddy, dir.Murphy After arriving at King Street Station, hop on a bus to Bellevue. Better yet, join a VanShare – where you and two other commuters meet at the station and share a King County Metro van to your work place. Below are links that will help you to plan your rail commute. (with stations in Tacoma, Puyallup, Sumner, Auburn, Kent, Tukwila, and Seattle) Sounder
timetables and routes
helps you create free,
custom transit plans
wherever Metro Transit and Sound Transit go--instantly, Use it to check bus routes linking Seattle's Sounder station to Bellevue destinations. Trip Planner Better to be safe than sorry. Call 911 if an emergency threatens human life or property. If not an emergency call your local police department directly. Burglars want cash or items easily fenced for cash; small electronic
equipment, computers, cameras, jewelry, hand guns. Don't make it easy... Empty stereo and television boxes in the alley is a strong temptation to "inquire within". Hide your valuables or keep them under lock and key. Engrave your valuables with "THIS PROPERTY STOLEN FROM ..." and include your driver's license number.     Add eggs and beat well.     Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder.     Add to creamed mixture alternately with     mashed bananas, blending well after each addition.     Stir in walnuts.     Pour into a well-greased nine-by-five-inch loaf pan.     Bake at 350 degrees for about 50 minutes.     Remove from pan; cool completely on rack.     Wrap and store overnight for full flavor.     Makes one loaf.     
                   McKenzie, William A.     Famously Good.     St. Paul [Minn.]: Minnesota Historical Society Press,     1990, p. As the third largest institution of higher learning in Washington, the college opens the door of
higher education to more than 37,000 students each year.   Read BCC's mission, vision, and strategic plan and goals.   Visit BCC! Locate , print , learn about commuting incentives, and find out about the GoBCC discounted bus pass available. campus maps driving directions   Browse our list of current job openings, download applications and find out why BCC is a great place to work. Other comparable institutions are the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, Albert Barnes Foundation in Pennsylvania, Borghese Gallery in Rome, Kenwood English Heritage and the Wallace Collection in London. The is the founding institution supporting the Museum, a private undertaking of collaboration between nonprofit organizations of
national significance. National Arts Club Vernon Court   492 Bellevue Avenue   Newport   Rhode Island 02840   Abstract: The series of 4 building case studies presented here all concern libraries, particularly the issue of lighting and visual comfort in libraries. The success of libraries, which have traditionally been intended for the reading of books or other matter, depends largely on the setting, particularly the luminous environment,
provided for that reading.
Great
libraries of the world are renowned for their
daylighting, beautifully incorporated
into the architectural form of the building. Examples are the Stockholm Public Library, the U.S. Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, and the New York and Boston Public Libraries, to name a few. Play, Learn and Explore at My Gym has been set up to bring moms and young children together in a safe, clean and fun environment.Whether you want to join a weekly class or just come to special events, there is always something going on at My Gym. Special events include: Waddlers Parties (sponsored by Huggies) Open Gym Storytime Pizza Parties/Ice cream socials Open Houses Parents Night Out Classes and many of the events do have a fee, however, some events are free and we also offer group events for
smaller fees. to that is satisfying, deep and lastingOpennessgrowth Making work and experience as as possibleouryourfun with and implementing the most innovative tools, games, skills and techniques of transformationExperimenting Demonstrating and fostering & between people, as well as committing to a deep and grounded for all people and each circumstancerespect, trusta
compassionate presencehopeoptimism The power and importance ofnarrative The core principles of : "", "", "", "", "", Freedom, SpontaneityimprovisationYes, And...Make your partner look goodMisteaks are GiftsEnter the DangerTrust the Process What's Our Philosophy? You (or your team) already have the knowledge to solve most of the challenges you face. The downtown area features an upscale mix of shops at Bellevue Square and Lincoln Square, popular dining and nightlife destinations
plus welcoming hotels — all within easy walking distance of Meydenbauer Center.Bellevue is one of the Northwest's most vibrant economic and business centers, offering a relaxed and accessible setting with big-city amenities. In the heart of downtown Bellevue is The Bellevue Collection, the
Pacific Northwest's premier resort shopping and dining destination. Over 250 upscale shops, 19 sit-down restaurants, a 16-screen luxury cinema, upscale Billiards Hall, a new Lucky Strike bowling alley and the
Bellevue Arts Museum — all within a few blocks radius. All porches and other entrances should be lit with at least 40-watt bulbs. Trim the overgrown bushes, tree limbs, or landscaping to the height of porches or windows.   Locks less than an arm's length away from glass panels and sidelights require
glass brick, grates or grilles. Where building codes allow, install double cylinder deadbolts that need to be opened with a key from the inside as well as the outside. A sliding glass door is lifted into position
when installed - and easily lifted out if you're not careful. Some of the old pasture fence is still standing in the center of the wetland area surrounded by creeping buttercup and elderberry bushes. When the new school was built in 1992, the building site was a wet meadow. Through a mitigation process the school district created a replacement wetland on the East Side of the new school. This fenced-in area is our existing wetland. We created two trails to be used as outdoor classrooms to enhance the environmental curriculum of our school. The Emily Dickinson wetland is a sensitive area to be protected from any disturbances to
the natural state of the property. Leif Hansen, managing director of Spark Northwest, has been using collaborative creativity to inspire, challenge and connect diverse groups for over two decades. His recent Soul Tech workshops, designed to help
participants find balance with their relationship to technology, have received national attention, including coverage by the Today Show.  Drawing from the principles and practices of improvisational acting, Leif's vulnerable and yet dynamic energy sparks a group's ability to connect authentically, playfully and productively. -CEO of -Focus Facilitator -Executive
CoachJay Kimball 8020 Vision You may also contact the following organizations for more information or assistance: Washington State Trade and Tourism Office, (360) 586-2088 - Tourism information , P.O. Box 8308,
Missoula, Montana
59807-8308 - Bicycle Touring Information and Maps Metzker Maps, 702 - 1st Avenue, Seattle, WA 98104, (206) 623-8747 - Maps, including King County Guide Map Elliott Bay Book Store, (206) 624-6600, Fax (206) 343-9558 - Bicycle touring books,
etc. 1 - National arson data is not
available. Therefore, arson data is not used in a comparitive manner, and arson data is excluded from property crimes total. Notes: Based on the final 2006 FBI Crime Reports. Results are tabulated using the Bellevue crime collection area
population of 47,591.
Bellevue crime collection population may not match US Census data. Population is based on the agencies participating in the reporting. THE MIRACLE WORKER Alabama Shakespeare  Marco Barricelli, dir.Capt. Keller  SAINT JOAN     ACT   Michael Smuin, dir.Rheims CORIOLANUS     Oregon Shakespeare    Anthony Taccone, dir.Comminius ROMEO & JULIET     Oregon Shakespeare    Rene Buch, dir.Capulet PRAVDA     Oregon Shakespeare    Henry Woronicz, dir.LeRoux EMMA CHILD (Premier)    Oregon Shakespeare   Cynthia White, dir.Henry OLEANNA    Oregon Shakespeare   Charles Towers, dir.John THE WHITE DEVIL    Oregon Shakespeare  Jerry Turner,
dir.deMedici LA BE    Oregon Shakespeare  Henry Woronicz, dir.Elomire RESTORATION    Oregon Shakespeare  Penny Metropulos, dir.Hardache It is essential to break away from the daily grind, turn the cell phones and laptops off and
let the wisdom that is in you (and your team) rise to the top. That knowledge can be quickly brought to surface and transformed into real-life practice
with the help of facilitators trained in powerful, fun
experience-based learning techniques. Most break-ins occur between 10am and 3pm. Put a radio or a TV on a timer. Turn the ringer on the telephone down.   Neighbors watching out for each other is the most effective method of crime prevention. Host a Neighborhood
Watch get-started meeting for your block, and invite a police department representative to assist with planning, education, training and prevention techniques. Never hide keys under a mat, or taped above a door jamb: Burglars know these places.
Leave a key with a trusted neighbor. University of Washington Suzzallo Library, Graduate Reading Room University of Washington Law Library in Condon Hall Magnolia Public Library, Seattle Public Libraries Bellevue Public Library, King County Libraries Each library was selected because it is outstanding in some way, as you will see in perusing the case studies. Each library was lauded for its design at the time it was built. Each library incorporates daylighting into the architectural design in a conscious way. City of Kirkland Parks, Facilities and Trails Guide (425-828-1217) City of Mercer Island Trails Guide (425-236-5300) City of Redmond Bicycle Map (425-556-2861) City of Seattle Bike Maps (206-684-7583) (pdf files) or call (206) 263-4700 King County bicycle maps What Resources Are Available For
First-Time Riders? Biking
to work for the first time can be both an exhilarating yet intimidating experience. Prior to setting out on your first ride, talk with some experienced riders and plan your commute. Browse facts about the college, review its history and read about BCC’s commitment to pluralism. Get acquainted with President B. Jean Floten and the Board of Trustees, and learn about BCC’s award-winning education and leadership.   Find online publications here including community reports, a viewbook for potential students, the college catalog and more.   Plan your next event or meeting at BCC. A range of facilities and support services are available for reasonable rates.   Help students help themselves and contribute to a strong community by
investing in BCC. G. Wells
World Brain 1937 Vannevar
Bush Memex As We May Think 1945 Ted Nelson Project Xanadu 1960 Internet History of Internet encyclopedia projects Similar projects Wikipedia is occasionally compared to other collaborative projects: - has a wider range and does not exclusively focus on building an encyclopedia; its contents are not available under a license. Everything2 copyleft - a collection of sometimes humorous encyclopedia articles, based on an idea from Douglas Adams's . Articles are also not freely modifiable. H2G2 The
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Wikinfo   – Bellevue
Transit Center's new
indoor bicycle parking and commute assistance facility is staffed by a bicycle specialist on most Wednesdays from 9:00 a.m. to noon, offering free advice and assistance with planning your bicycle ride or commute. Commuter Connection Store – Cascade Bicycle Club offers free classes hosted at your
work site about biking to work.  Cascade Bicycle Club Commuter Classes spark kudos “My most respected colleague, Rebecca Stockley, sent me an email last year from San Francisco about Leif that said, 'He's a detail guy working with the big picture, and he brings a remarkable tech savvy to support it all.”Talk
to this guy if he calls you. He gets it.' And I did and
he does. - Matt Smith Professional Trainer, Bainbridge, WA. “Symetra’s decision to expand the scope of our IT services to include desk-side support at their headquarters facility is a reflection of the confidence and trust they have developed in ACS over the last two years. With these expanded services in place, Symetra will be able to fully leverage the advanced support capabilities of ACS’ Service Desk and realize substantially improved desk-side support, which will allow them to further enhance cost efficiencies and overall service.” 42 15 33 N 90 25 35 W / 42.25917 N 90.42639 W / 42.25917; -90.42639 [1] According to the , the city has
a total area of 1.0 square miles (2.7 km ), of which, 1.0 square miles (2.5 km ) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km ) of it (6.73%) is water. United States Census Bureau [] edit Demographics As of the of 2000, there were 2,350 people, 942 households, and 629 families residing in the city. The Frederick Law Olmsted Park and Vernon Court's grounds have a number of Champion Trees of the USA, including Ginko, Japanese Zelkovas and Yeddo
Spruce. A in honor of, the
greatest American
architect of the second half
of theStoneacreFrederick Law OlmstedMemorial ArchLouis I. Kahn20thcentury, will beconstructed in the future.This unique tripartite project comprises a great step forward towards protecting and enhancing our nation's architectural and artistic heritage. SceneInSeattle offers you guided fine art
walking tours of Seattle
hottest galleries. Stroll through Seattle beautiful art districts and learn what... More about Scene In Seattle Fine Art Tours   The primary purpose of the Reserve is to provide people with an opportunity to enjoy nature through quiet walks in the gardens and woodlands. Please come... More about Bloedel Reserve   Nature tours, walks and activities: staying in touch with the nearby outdoor space, the green, the small-scale adventure you need. Pre-school, school... Browse through renowned stores like Nordstrom, Crate and Barrel, Macy's and Tiffany & Co., or explore our dozens of unique shops that you won't find anywhere. From A|X Armani Exchange to Urban Dogs. Bellevue Square Downtown Bellevue's Main Street Just south of Downtown Bellevue Park offers quaint, friendly shopping in that features upscale boutiques and gift
shops, deli's and restaurants. More than 40 businesses line the two-block stretch between Bellevue Way and 100th Avenue Northeast. The old-fashioned lampposts lend historical flavor, and awnings protect shoppers from the worst weather. Coming soon: The Shops at The Bravern, anchored by Neiman Marcus, are designed to provide a distinctive setting for the area's affluent residents. Crossroads Shopping Center in the Overlake neighborhood acts as a community gathering place, offering a diverse shop-ping and dining experience with over 80 stores, restaurants and services. Both Factoria Mall and Crossroads will be transforming in the years to come and will knit together the business district and surrounding neighborhoods. Many other
unique and specialty stores are weaved throughout the community and offer shoppers an array of retail options. Seattle Bicycle Advisory Board SDOT publishes and distributes a free "Seattle Bicycling Guide Map"; this map covers the Seattle City limits. For copies of other local and regional Bike
Maps, please see the list below. Over 200 area route maps for local cyclists. : Available at REI Stores in Western Washington and Metzker Maps. : (425) 452-2894 Redmond Bicycling Guide: (425) 556-2421 - (PDF format) City of Kirkland Park Facilities and Trail Guide:
Available from the Kirkland Parks and Recreation Department, (425) 828-1217 City of Mercer Island Park Facilities and Trail Guide: (206) 236-3545 Kitsap & Olympic Peninsula Bike Map: Available from Bremerton/Kitsap County Visitors Bureau, (360) 297-8200 Washington State Department of Transportation Map "Traffic Data for Bicyclists": Available from Washington State Department of Transportation Public Affairs Office, (360) 705-7277. Wikipedia discourages a number of kinds of entries, because in Wikipedia's view they do not constitute encyclopedia articles. For example Wikipedia entries can
not be merely dictionary definitions, links to other web sites or "creative" material which is outside the generally accepted . See, on Wikipedia for an extensive explanation. (To solve this problem , a wiki dictionary, , a "creative material" wiki and have been created.) canon of knowledge what Wikipedia is not Wiktionary WikiBooks other projects Take a closer look at Bellevue University and you'll soon recognize our commitment to the life and career success of our students, particularly working adults who seek advance ment by acquiring broader, deeper knowledge, new skills, and academic credentials. Bellevue University's supportive learning environment emphasizes principles of active learning that expose students to both theoretical knowledge and practical application. Traditional teacher-to-learner lectures are replaced with active involvement in the learning, using applied workplace projects, library and database research,
interaction with teachers and other students, and multimedia resources The two university libraries have specific reading rooms that were studied, while the community libraries have reading areas scattered throughout the building. The time periods represented by the 4 libraries 1923 (Suzzallo), 1962 (Magnolia), 1972 (UW Law) and 1991
(Bellevue) represent different
cultural and design approaches to the definition and construction of a library. Got to be at work when New York opens? Scullers and sweep rowers are invited to join the evening league for great sport and good fun. Evening League Fridays with Frank This group of women scullers focuses on rowing larger boats (quads, triples, doubles) with a goal of racing. This is not a group for beginners. Participants should have mastered fundamental sculling technique, and have passed the flip test. The Bellevue Collection, which includes Bellevue Square, Bellevue Place, and Lincoln Square, offers a shopping experience like none other in the Northwest. Located in the heart of Bellevue, the Bellevue Collection offers 250 exceptional shops, 18 sit-down restaurants, a 16-screen premier cinema, 700 luxury hotel rooms and 10,000 free retail parking spaces, all in one location. A $40 million facelift of Bellevue Square continues with Nordstrom, Banana
Republic, Pottery Barn, and Victoria Secret completing major expansions.