Consisting of both museums and memorials, these ships honor the men and women who serve their nations as well as provide an exciting and fun place to learn about history and technology. about HNSA Today, the 175 ships of the HNSA fleet ride peacefully at anchor, inviting you to cross their brows and journey back in time. Sit in the wardroom of a mighty battleship, touch a powerful torpedo on a submarine. The port engine was knocked out of commission, the starboard engine could only be run at five knots, steering was lost, and much of the main deck
was awash.    Sigsbee was towed back to Guam by the ocean going tug Munsee, where she was sufficiently repaired to enable her to make the voyage to Pearl Harbor.The destroyer arrived there on 17 June and had a complete new 60-foot stern installed. The contract for land vehicles includes equipping of the high-profile mine-resistant ambush-protected (MRAP) vehicle, currently used for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our team members are trusted advisors to CAEI, committed to improving performance and productivity. We support CAEI with project monitoring by measurement and analysis at all levels to improve efficiencies and save costs. CAEI's aim is to ensure that their contracts are executed in the most efficient way  better than any other department in the US Navy. QinetiQ’s operations in Charleston provide quality advice to manage CAEI's interests effectively and with integrity, ultimately making sure that CAEI achieves its goals over the next five to eight years.” , Programme ManagerMichael Henson Wikipedia Day bandwidth server Bomis Tim Shell Wikimedia Foundation wiki [1] In May 2001, a wave of non-English Wikipedias was launched  in , , , , , , , , , , , , and .
These were soon joined by and . In September, was added, and further commitment to the multilingual provision of Wikipedia was made. At the end of the year, , , and versions were announced. Well, if you've got any nautical experience you know that a "head" is the bathroom.  But did you know this: Not many people know that Edison was an avid fisherman.  He usually included some trout fishing in his infrequent vacations. During one such trip to the west he was befriended by a native American tribe.  They provided free room and board, as well as expert fishing guides for
his stay.  On his first night he
discovered that the only
sanitary facility was an old-fashioned outhouse.  To make things worse it had no light even though the village had electricity in the homes. As a thank-you gift for their kindnesses, Edison purchased the necessary materials and personally installed lighting in the their privy. He thus became the first person to wire a head for a reservation. [167k] Chief Executive Officer's review QNA is providing support to CI Acquisition Engineering and Integration (CAEI) in a $4.7m indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity, cost-plus-fixed fee performance-based contract. This contract is for a base year with four option periods and three award term provisions, which if exercised, would bring the cumulative value of the contract to an estimated $42m.4 The CAEI department provides integration of
command, control, communications, computers and intelligence (CI) systems for new shipsand also the conversion of land vehicles, ships, submarines and other systems used by the US Navy and other services.4 (Office/Headquarters) 40 East Bay Street Charleston, SC 29401 Phone: (843) 723-1623 Fax: (843) 577-2067 48 Elizabeth Street Charleston, SC 29403 Phone: (843) 723-1159 51 Meeting Street Charleston, SC 29401 House Phone: (843) 724-8481Historic Charleston Foundation The Capt. James Missroon House Aiken-Rhett House Nathaniel Russell House Shop Phone: (843) 805-6736 108 Meeting Street Charleston, SC 29401 Phone: (843) 724-8484 (Open Nov. President John F. Kennedy, August 1, 1963, US Naval Academy, Annapolis, MD. PHOTOS Lots of graphics here--this may be a "slow"
page to open but it's worth it
Tico Launch Launch of Ticonderoga at Newport News Shipbuilding on February 7, 1944 New Angle Deck Fresh out of the yards in March, 1957 with her new angle deck Bob Hope Show Bob Hope, Anita Bryant, Joey Hetherton, Diana Linn Bats in 1965 Shellback Ceremony April 15, 1971 on the equator in the western Pacific The fifth Ticonderoga was CG47. She was the Navy's first Aegis Cruiser. She was decommissioned in 2004 Another neat shot of CG 47 A good 1955 shot before the angle flight deck was added Tico in Gibraltar in 1955 A snowy inport period in Naples in 1955 Departing , Cristobal, on 1 March, sailed for Hampton Roads, arrived on 6 March, and shifted to the the next day for post-shakedown availability.Yorktown Caribbean Culebra Puerto Rico Charlotte Amalie St Thomas U.S. Virgin Islands Gona ves Haiti Guantanamo Bay Cuba Crist bal Panama Canal Zone Colon Bay Yorktown Norfolk Navy Yard After undergoing repairs through the early autumn of 1938, shifted from the navy yard to NOB Norfolk on 17 October and soon headed for the for training.Yorktown Southern Drill Grounds operated off the eastern seaboard, ranging from to Guantanamo
Bay, into 1939. As flagship for , she participated in her first war game - - along with her sister-ship in February 1939. Added over 30 new and our first Blu-ray items. Overall the movie section was improved more as it was a bit behind the times.8 Jan Books and movies updates bestselling books recently added books DVD Movies I've updated the popular page. Improved the display of Allied ships hit (convoys click-able now), added "Attacks on U-boats" and various other improvements. I also completely re-wrote the look and feel of the pages when you them out. While the Olympic project, that was adjusted to supply missions, contained a
spherical saucer design,
which has proven with the Daedalus class in the22th century, but seemed to be inapplicable for high-warp vessels, the Zodiac project was intented to have a toroid saucer section beside the rarely used double-pair configuration of the warp nacelles that is advantageous for deep space explorers, and the Cora project, an escort type, an elongated triangular saucer. Unfortunately, the latter project had be cancelled already in2344insurmountable problems with the warp field geometry, however, the prototype construction of the Olympic project could be started in the following year, and after many difficulties and the addition of an
extended offensive potential to the specifications in2346due to the Cardassian threat, the construction of the Zodiac class prototype finally started in2347. If you want higher resolution reproductions than the Online Library's digital images, see: "How to Obtain Photographic Reproductions." Click on the small photograph to prompt a larger view of the same image. Diorama by Norman Bel Geddes, depicting combat air patrol intercepting the incoming Japanese dive bomber raid on USS (CV-5), at about noon on 4 June 1942. Most of the Japanese planes were shot down by F4F-4 fighters, but several survived to drop bombs on or near . Markings on the F4Fs are not accurate for this time period, as the fuselage stars are too small.Photo #: 80-G-701874 Battle of Midway, June 1942 Yorktown Yorktown Official U.S. Due to the restricted size, capacity and equipment of these ships, the class doesn't replace the rather old Constellation class vessels, but it sensibly supplements them by a armament which is very heavy for a deep space explorer and propulsion systems that are far superior to the Constellation class. Actually, the Zodiac class and the related technological developments already originated in the year2340, when the Alternative Spacecraft Technologies group (AST) was set up by the ASDB in order to test new ways in starship design, that completely differ from the established classic starships with a round, flat saucer section and a primary section connected to its bottom, firstly by theoretical design studies and computer models, later by experimental prototypes. These five fleets are further grouped under Fleet Forces Command (the former Atlantic Fleet), Pacific Fleet, Naval Forces Europe, and Naval Forces Central Command, whose commander also doubles as Commander ; these four commands are led
by four-star full Admirals. The existed after the Second World War from 1947 at least, but it was redesignated Third Fleet in early 1973. Likewise, has not been in operation for some time and no other active fleet has been renamed as such. Fifth Fleet First Fleet [14] Fourth Fleet Shore establishments Shore establishment commands exist to support the mission of the afloat fleets through the use of facilities on land. Focusing on logistics and combat-readiness, they are essential for the full, smooth, and continuous operation of operating forces. returned to Long Beach and her entire battery of nine 8-inch (200 mm) guns was replaced. In February, she commenced training for
return to the Far East. One of the highlights
of this training period came from to 1952 when she took part in "Lex Baker One", the largest scale training exercise held since the outbreak of the . Over 70 ships and 15,000 sailors and Marines took active part in this operation.Helena 8 December 1951 14 February 23 February Korean War PEARL HARBOR (COMSUBPAC Public Affairs) -- Commander, Submarine Squadron One (CSS-1) Capt. Lindsay Hankins presents USS Los Angeles (SSN 688) Commanding Officer, Cmdr. Steve Harrison, Executive Officer Lt. Cmdr. Eric George and Chief of the Boat Senior Chief Electronics Technician (SS) Ron Brooks with the 2008 CSS-1 Battle
Efficiency (Battle “E”) award. USS Los Angeles receives Battle Efficiency award 01/23/2009 (more) PEARL HARBOR (COMSUBPAC Public Affairs) -- Commander, Submarine Force U.S. Pacific Fleet (COMSUBPAC), together with Naval Submarine Support Command (NSSC), hosted a Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. observance ceremony, Friday, Jan. 16, at the Ford Island Conference Center. The destroyer is taking off her crew.Hornet USN NS0402604 103k USS (CA-26), at right, attempting to tow USS (CV-8) after she had been disabled by Japanese air attacks on 26 October 1942. Northampton Hornet Official U.S. Navy Photograph, now in the collections of the National Archives (# 80-G-33897). Scott Dyben NS020815 316k October 26 1942, in tow. Cruiser (CA-26) made three attempts to take the carrier in tow, but additional Japanese attacks frustrated these efforts.Hornet Northampton The "X" above the bridge and the CXAM radar antenna indicates where T.R. Archer was wounded by a Japanese dive bomber in a suicide attack (see photos "020808" and "020809",
above). From the collection of Chief Parachute Rigger, Theo. R. Archer, USN Retired.
Contributed by his son, Bill Archer. On she steamed to within 10 miles (16 km) of the Chinese mainland, covering Chinese Nationalist supply ships replenishing . While on this duty, she was illustrating once more the fact that the mere presence of the overwhelming naval strength of the United States is one of the most formidable protections the free world has in deterring such aggression.Helena 7 September Quemoy Island On , while off the Philippines, word flashed to to proceed to the aid of a stricken merchant vessel of Norwegian registry, the , which had run aground on in the . reached the scene at 1000, . She has been hit just aft of the midships elevator, with white smoke visible streaming from that area. This bomb exploded on the flight deck, causing many casualties in the vicinity. It also
started fires in the hangar below, but these were quickly extinguished.
Foreground objects are the wing and tail of two
of 's SOC floatplanes.Photo #: 80-G-21641 Battle of Midway, June 1942 YorktownPortland Portland Official U.S. Navy Photograph, now in the collections of the National Archives. Online Image: 94KB; 740 x 625 pixels Reproductions of this image may also be available through the Details all enlisted personnel on board alphabetically and by watch, quarter, and station bill. Refers to John Rodgers (Commanding Officer) and Midshipman L. Kearney. 3) Sheet of reenlistment advance pay receipts preprinted for (c.1826)Constitution Crane, William M., Captain, USN ALS dated 23 October 1823, Navy Yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. To Purser Thomas Chew, USN. Regarding purchase of razors. Craven, Thomas T., Rear Admiral, USN 1) 63 LS dated 1861-1863 in Letterbook. Civil War correspondence including letters written
on board to Admiral Farragut, in which Craven justifies his actions at the Battle of Vicksburg.Brooklyn 2) 11 LS dated 1862-1900. Civil War correspondence, including letters to his wife and addition letters on 's course of action during the Battle of Vicksburg.Brooklyn Large format scrapbook assembled by donor, Captain Paul C. Precedence of awards is from top to bottom, left to
right Top Row: 2nd Row: 3rd Row: On
23 Nov. 1945, at Southampton, England, Sir Albert Victor Alexander, First Lord of the
Admiralty, and Admiral of the Fleet
Sir Andrew B. Cunningham, First Sea Lord, visited USS and the British Admiralty Flag was hoisted in the ship. He was commissioned an ensign 28 February 1941 and assigned to the destroyer USS (DD-412). Ensign Lovering died during the Battle of Midway when was torpedoed by the Japanese submarine and sunk 6 June 1942 while aiding in the salvage of (CV-5). Four torpedoes were loosed
towards . Two missed; one passed under striking , and the fourth hit the destroyer amidships, breaking the destroyer back. As the debris from the explosion rained down and the ships lurched apart, it was apparent that was doomed after breaking in two. Steve Harrison, Executive Officer Lt. Cmdr. Eric George and Chief of the Boat Senior Chief Electronics Technician (SS) Ron Brooks with the 2008 CSS-1 Battle Efficiency (Battle “E”) award, given to the squadron’s submarine crew that best demonstrates technical proficiency and continual mission readiness throughout the year.  “I’m very proud of this team of
warriors,” said Harrison.  “This is the strongest
crew that I’ve ever seen. They really look out for each other, and I am proud to be their commanding officer.” (U.S. Navy photo by Mass Communication Specialist 3rd Class Luciano Marano / Released).   By MC3 Luciano Marano COMSUBPAC Public AffairsUSS Los Angeles receives Battle
Efficiency award Naval IX Inch
Shell-gun for the Main Deck of
Steam Frigates Merrimack &c- The basic plans for gun carriages used for mounting Dahlgren guns on board wooden U.S. Navy ships during the Civil War era. Dale, Richard , Captain, USN ALS dated 20 December 1801. To Honorable Robert Livingston, American Minister at Paris. Reports Dale has entered the inner port at Toulon where he intends to heave down ship. Daniels, Josephus, Secretary of the Navy LS dated 1914-1920. File of correspondence as Secretary of the Navy. Darling, Charles H., Assistant Secretary of the Navy TLS, dated 13 April 1903. Discusses Marine and Navy involvement in the 1903 New York Military Tournament. Davidson,
Robin I., Captain, USN The bulk of this collection consists of personal letters and miscellaneous documents from the War of Independence through the American Civil War. Updated "Events on this day" again, plus better printing Added the 15 photo post-war gallery of the that includes great shots of the trapped type XXI boats. Then added a great diving gallery, 11 photos, of the .3 Jan Added 2 new Galleries Added an article with the English translation of appendix A of the . That appendix describes how the German U-boats were to surrender to the Allied from May 7 1945.2 Jan Surrender order of
the German U-boat fleet
Following a major overhaul completed and intensive training, including missile launching, she again sailed west.Helena 19 October 31 March 1958 1958 cruise in the Far East began . Her first port of call was , arriving . On the next day, students and faculty of the were received on board for a tour of the ship. Her schedule next called for a visit to , but the crisis brought on by the Chinese Communist shelling of the off-shore islands of Quemoy and Matsu governed by the
Nationalists interrupted normal operations.Helena's 3 August Keelung, Taiwan 21 August Taiwan National Defense College Manila LS dated 12 November 1844 19) . To Asa Curtis from Michael Clear, attesting to his presence aboard the US Frigate during the capture of the British
Frigates and
. LS dated 25 November 1845 ConstititionGuerriereJava 20) , from Captain F. Forrest aboard Flag Ship , addressed to the Secretary of the Navy, announcing the death of Asa Curtis. LS dated 13 September 1858 St. Lawrence 21) of the decks, masts, etc. of U.S. Frigate , written in early 1800s. Two page record giving the dimensions United States 22) . Watercolor on ivory by Doyle, early 1800s. Miniature portrait of Asa Curtis 23) . Small pocket notebook type with fascinating recipes
and required articles for fitting out ships in the early 1800s. Small personal log, 6"x8" 24) . In April, Sigsbee patrolled the entrance to Humboldt Bay until the 26 when she screened a convoy to Cape Cretin.On 13 May Commander Gordon P. Chung-Hoon USN, relieved Commander Russell as commanding officer.After patrolling in the Guadalcanal area for several weeks, Sigsbee joined TU 53.1.14 to take part in the Mariana Islands campaign.The destroyer bombarded the Guam beaches during the period 16 to 18 July as well as
covering the underwater demolition teams on the beaches.She then joined the picket screen and remained off Guam until 3 August. Sigsbee returned to Humboldt Bay for a month and then joined TF 77, proceeded to Morotai Island, North Moluceas, andprovided fire support for the landings on Cape Podangi in mid-September.th     Next was an escort trip with Independence (CVL-22) and Guest (DD-472) to Trinidad, B.W.I., where the carrier trained her air group.Upon her return to Norfolk, Sigsbee refueled and with Guest and Earle (DD-635) escorted Lexington (CV-16) to Trinidad arriving on 16 May.      On 8 June, the destroyer was detached
from the group and proceeded independently to New York.Sigsbee operated between New York , Casco Bay, and Norfolk until 22 July.On that date, the destroyer, with Harrison (DD-573), Daly (DD-519), and Lexington, stood out of Norfolk en route to Pearl Harbor via the Panama Canal.The canal was transited on 27 July, and Sigsbee arrived at Pearl Harbor on 9 August.    Online Store
Onsite Store Get the gang
together at Patriots
Point. Four ships, twenty five aircraft, vivid displays from
World War II through Desert Storm. It's hard to imagine a better setting for your military reunion than Patriots Point Naval & Maritime Museum. Just ask the countless military reunion planners who have held hundreds of successful events at Patriots Point. Set on beautiful Charleston Harbor, Patriots Point is in the heart of greater Charleston's most popular tourist attractions. We work with every hotel in the area as well as fabulous caterers, transportation experts and all the people who come together to make your military reunion a terrific experience. Busy... Complex... Overwhelming? We're none of those things! Patriots Point is nestled in a quant village setting neighboring Charleston, America's most mannerly city! The storms can been seen on the visible satellite image by the overshooting cloud tops, shown by the arrow. The storms continued along a northeastward track up the Ohio through about 5 pm. Figure 2 Figure 2 - Satellite image of overshooting cloud tops in Carter County, KY. The storms produced some wind damage in the Olive Hill area of Carter County around 3:30 pm (). Partially Printed Document dated 28 July 1864. Allotting a portion of Harper Poe's pay to Elizabeth Poe while serving as a landsman on the Confederate ship under Lieutenant Wall.Drewry Congress, U.S. Frigate Watch, quarter, and station bill dated 16 November 1816. "Sailed from Boston for Mexico." Kept by Lieutenant John Gallagher. Constellation, U.S. Frigate See also Thompson, Alexander 1) AD dated 5 June 1799, Norfolk. Power of Attorney authorizing Thomas Dunn to collect the prize money of several Marine shipmates accruing to them while they were on board. Notarized by J. Nivison. 2) AD dated 29 June 1799. Power of Attorney for John Light, Quartermaster, to collect prize money due while serving under Thomas
Truxtun.