The Constitution of the United States defines only one official duty for the vice president. He is the .  The president, however, can choose to delegate additional responsibilities to this person and since 1933, the vice presidents have attended
meetings of the president's . At this point, only five vice presidents have been
successfully elected as president: , , , and . president of the U.S. Senate Cabinet John Adams Thomas Jefferson Martin Van Buren Richard Nixon George Bush You may want to read the from Grolier Online and then take the . Climate Change and the Role of Higher Education Date:  January 4, 2008 On November 26, Arizona State University hosted the Conference on Climate Change and the Role of
Higher Education. The event included faculty presentations about climate change and discussion by the
presidents of Arizona’s three universities - Arizona State University, The University of Arizona, and Northern Arizona University - regarding the challenges that climate change poses to higher education institutions and the state. People running for political office. People who vote for people in office. 2. A political party is The entertainment at a convention. A huge organization of people who share the same views on how the government should be run. The celebration after the election.
3. A petition is The list of ideas for running the government that a candidate has. A list of signatures backing a person for political office. The list of people who give money to the candidate for office. 4. A campaign is As a member of the Democratic minority in the 109th Congress, he helped
create legislation to control conventional weapons and to
promote greater public accountability in the use of federal
funds. He also made official trips to Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. During the 110th Congress, he helped create legislation regarding lobbying and electoral fraud, climate change, nuclear terrorism, and care for returned U.S. military personnel. Obama announced his presidential campaign in
February 2007, and was formally nominated at the 2008 Democratic National Convention with Delaware senator Joe Biden as his running mate. The vignette, which appears in the group at the end of this volume, is copied from the only portrait that was ever made of Mrs. Monroe, and was executed in Paris in 1796.Elizabeth Kortright [] edit James His nephew, , soldier, born in
Albemarle County, Va., September 10, 1799; died in Orange, N. J., September 7, 1870, was a son of the
president's elder brother, Andrew. He was graduated at
the U. The first stop on our grand tour through the Executive Branch has to be the . From here, you can meet the First Family, take an interactive tour of the Whitehouse, the Old Executive Office Building, or see the First Ladies' Garden of the White House. You can also see major electronic texts of Daily Press Releases, Topical Releases, Major Documents (such as speeches by the President), and National Documents (ie NAFTA & the Declaration of Independance). If you haven't heard the
President or Vice President's voice in quite some time, you can also here a welcome
message from both of them. Whitehouse Continuing through the Executive Branch is the President's cabinet made up of 14 different departments covering all facets of American life. Preservation of the union was paramount to Abraham Lincoln but a nation where all men were free and equal was
destined to be. At the turn of the Twentieth Century Theodore Roosevelt saw that in our nation was the possibility for greatness. Our nation was changing from a rural republic to a world power. The ideals of these presidents laid a foundation for our nation as solid as the rock from which their figures are carved. Each man possessed great skills and leadership of the brand our nation
needed for the times. Here's a quote for you: "Bush really hasn't done much when it comes to breaking down the preconceived notions of Americans as greedy, myopic, pompous cretins..." [Intake of breath]. "The president had never been to Europe before
taking office, his disregard for immigrants has been shocking and the lengths he's been willing to go for oil seem boundless." This lesson discusses the idea of government by the consent of the governed, and why such
government is the only legitimate kind of government from the point of view of the American Founders. Discussion questions follow the reading. Students will analyze historical evidence including primary sources to understand what it means for a government to operate
with the consent of the governed, and why that is important. National Council for the Social Studies: Thematic Strands I, II, V, VI, X Arizona Academic Standards, Social Studies: 1SS-E17, E18; 2SS-E3, E7, P1, P5, P10 California History-Social Science Content Standards: 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4; 11.1; 12.1, 12.2 Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills: Social Studies 8.1, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.16, 8.21, 8.23; U.S. The oath specified in Article II does not include four words recited in all recent
inaugurations: "So help me God."  The first known use
of the phrase "So help me God" in a presidential inauguration was by
Chester Arthur, on September 22, 1881, following the death in office of President James Garfield.  In 2008, atheist activist Michael Newdow unsuccessfully sued in federal court to block the use of the phrase "So help me God"
in Barack Obama's inauguration.  On
three occasions, presidents (Arthur, Coolidge, and Obama) have re-taken oaths after questions were raised
about first attempts.  The
most recent do-over occurred in 2009 after Chief Justice Roberts got the oath's words out of order in the public inauguration ceremony. "At the proposal of the Russian imperial government, made through the minister of the emperor residing here, full power and instructions have been transmitted
to the minister of the United States
at St. Petersburg to arrange, by amicable negotiation, the respective rights and interests of the two nations
on the northwest coast of this
continent. A similar proposal has
been made by his imperial majesty to the government of Great Britain, which has likewise been acceded to. This page is part of © FOTW Flags Of The World website United States of America by Dave Martucci United States Flag History Pages In 1960, a star was added, representing , bringing the total number of stars to 50. There are thirteen stripes representing the thirteen original colonies. Hawaii According to President Dwight Eisenhower's Executive Order (#10834, published 25 August, 1959)
the 50-Star flag would become the "official flag of the United States on July 4, 1960." Since the adoption of the Constitution, forty-two individuals have been elected or succeeded into the presidency, the first being , serving forty-three different presidencies altogether (since was the twenty-second and twenty-fourth president(s) of the U.S.A.). The current president is ,
inaugurated on January 20, 2001 to
a first term and on January 20, 2005 to a second. His term expires at noon on January 20,
2009,
after which he will be replaced by the winner of the . From the middle of the twentieth century, the United States' status as a has led the American president to become one of the world's most well-known and influential public
figures. In order to ensure a smooth transition of power, there is a need for a period of time between the election and and the swearing in of the new period.  New presidents have to choose cabinet members and other key administration members, as well as get up to speed on security issues and simply began the task of
physically moving a new team to Washington.  For the old president, this time in office is referred to as "the lame duck" period, a term taken from Wall Street that used to refer to people who could not pay off their loans--persons, like the lame duck president, without much capital. "After the longest and hardest fought presidential campaign in American history, the votes are now in
and Barack Obama has just been
elected the 44th President of the United States. The Urban League of Greater Madison congratulates President-elect Obama, Vice-President-elect, Joe Biden, and their families for turning what began as an improbable journey into an historic victory for their party and our country. We welcome the new vision they bring to Washington and pledge to work with them to tackle the nations deepening domestic challenges, including the epidemic of home foreclosures, the crisis in public education as
well as rising unemployment and poverty that have hit
middle class and urban Americans especially hard in recent years. Two social events marked the beginning and the end of his administration: first, his ceremonious visit to the principal cities of the north and south; and, second, the national reception of the Marquis de Lafayette, who came to this country as the nation's guest. The
purchase of the Floridas was brought to a successful issue, February 22, 1819, by a treaty with Spain, concluded at Washington, and thus the control of the entire Atlantic and Gulf seaboard, from the St. Croix to the Sabine, was secured to the United States. A graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law
School, where he became the first black person to serve as president of the Harvard Law Review, Obama worked as a community organizer and practiced as a civil rights attorney before serving three terms in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004. He taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from
1992 to 2004. Following an
unsuccessful bid for a seat in the
U.S. House of Representatives in
2000, he announced his campaign for the U.S. Senate in January 2003. After a primary victory in March 2004, Obama delivered the keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. Tact and gaiety made her one of the most popular hostesses of the White House, and she left Washington in 1929 with the country's respect and love. For greater privacy in Northampton, the
Coolidges bought "The
Beeches," a large house with
spacious grounds. Calvin Coolidge
died there in 1933. He had summed
up their marriage in his : "For almost a quarter
of a century she was borne with my
infirmities, and
I have rejoiced in her graces." After his death she sold The Beeches, bought a smaller house, and in time undertook new ventures she had longed to try: her first airplane ride, her first trip to Europe. She kept her aversion to publicity and her sense of fun until
her death in 1957. Legislative Branch State and
Local Government
                                                  
                                                   Constitution The American Constitution is the oldest written constitution in force in the world. The authors of the Constitution built in a provision for amending the document when political, social or economic conditions demanded it. Reproduction of painting of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and others signing the U.S.
Constitution in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (©Library of Congress) Twenty-seven amendments have been passed since ratification. Presidents who did not complete a term to which they were elected, for one reason or another. A. William Henry Harrison, died in office
(1841); Zachary Taylor, died in office (1850); Abraham
Lincoln, assassinated (1865); James A. Garfield, assasinated (1881); William McKinley, assassinated (1901); Warren Harding, died in office (1923); Franklin Delano Roosevelt; died in office (1945); John F. Kennedy, assasinated (1963); Richard M. Nixon, resigned (1974) and technically Gerald Ford (since he was never elected to office, he "never completed a term to which he was
elected"). Of the eight Presidents whose terms were ended by their deaths, four of the Vice-Presidents who ascended to office were elected for their own term (Theodore Roosevelt, 1904; Calvin Coolidge, 1924; Harry Truman, 1948 and Lyndon B.