PAPER FLOWERS FOR MOTHERS DAY You can make beautiful and attractive multicolored paper
flowers for your mom on
the special occasion of Mother's Day. You can do so by making use of colored cupcake liners. This craft is a real good idea, as
these flowers would not get dried and
hence could be stored for a longer period. Congress passed another Joint Resolution May 8, 1914, designating the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day. The U.S. flag is to be displayed on government buildings and at people's homes "as a public expression of our love and reverence for the mothers of our country." President Woodrow Wilson issued the first proclamation making Mother's Day an official national holiday.   SO NOW WHAT? If your mother is still alive, take care to shower her with special attention this Mother's Day. Visit her. Phone her. Send her a card. Give her flowers. Get her gourmet chocolates. Buy her
something you know she's been wanting. But don't wait until after her funeral to let her know how much you've appreciated her! Wear your red (or otherwise-colored) carnation proudly. : : Coupon Book For Mother's Day Mothers Day 2009 Mothers Day Crafts MOTHERS DAY COUPON BOOK A coupon book is one of the best gift items for moms on the Mother's Day. It is very easy to make a coupon book so you can yourself make this simple coupon book for your mom and give
it to her as a personalized gift. Pencil
White Papers A printer Scissors Paper punch Crayons and colors Ribbon. To make the coupon
book follow these steps: 1. First of all draw the outer lines and other designs of your choice on the white papers leaving a good margin for writing the text. 2. Then print
out the coupon
pages. 3. Then cut out the coupons following the outer lines on the pages. 4. To make sure that all the pages are of the same size, trim the edges of all the coupons. Pencil 3. Scissors 4. Punch 5. Paste stick 6.. Markers or crayons 1. Firstly take two pieces of
construction paper; fold them half, making two cards shapes. 2. Now put the folded cards one inside the other. 3. Draw half a bird along the fold of one of them. 4. Hold the two cards together
and cut along the line you just
drew. This will result into two birds. 5. Take only one of the birds, fold it again and draw a smaller bird within it. 6. Cut along the line you just drew. 7. Make a series of holes; with the help of punch, along the edges of the two pieces you just cut. 8. Paste one of these pieces onto the larger, uncut
bird. 9. Turn over the large bird and glue
on the other cut piece. 10. MOTHER'S DAY HISTORY The '' was first proclaimed in 1870 in
the United States. And it was who proclaimed the
same in Boston. Howe
also called for it to be observed each year at the
national level in 1872. In fact the original idea behind Howe's "Mother's Day" was a call for Pacifism and disarmament by all the women. At the early times it was a common activity to have the meeting of groups of mothers. And in such meetings those mothers were supposed to participate whose sons had fought or died on opposite sides of the American Civil War. Later in Grafton, West Virginia, to commemorate the anniversary of her mother's death two years earlier on May
9, 1905, first celebrated Mother's Day in 1907 in a small private way. Jarvis's mother, whose name was also 'Anna Jarvis', was an active participant in the Mother's Day campaigns. These Mother's Day campaigns were usually held for the purpose of peace and workers' health and safety measures. Inspired with her mother's death and in order to pay
tribute to her the younger Jarvis launched a quest to get wider recognition of Mother's Day. For this purpose the
younger Jarvis organized a grand celebration on May
10, 1908 at the Andrew's Methodist Church in
Grafton. , people on Mother's Day honor their mothers as well as the church. They respect the - the spiritual power that gave them life and protected them from harm. The church festival got blended with the Mothering Sunday celebration.In Europe"Mother Church" Mother's Day is . It is closely associated
with Mother Mary - the mother of Jesus. On this children send special cards, chocolates, flowers and other presents to their mothers. But many children make their own presents for their mothers.In Spaincelebrated on 8th December In Sweden Mother's Day is on the last Sunday in May and is a family
holiday. The Swedish Red Cross sells small
plastic flowers on the days leading up to Mother's Day. The money raised from the sale of the flowers is used to help needy mothers and their children. 52 %
of the words for mother in the material have ma/me/mo or na/ne/no in the root syllable poems. An AT&T survey estimated that 122.5 million
phone calls to Mom are made on Mother's Day.
Charles Dickens observed that mothers might have value to their offspring rather than simply focusing on fathers when he said, "...the virtues of mothers could be visited upon children as well as "sins of fathers." Meanwhile, the influence
of the New World's mothers was strong. In 1740 a youth who would become famous, persuaded by motherly tears,
gave up being a midshipman in the Queen's Navy after his luggage was put aboard a British Man-o-War. Mary Washington committed this "momism" thereby changing son George's career and possibly the course of our nation. A century later "Whistler's Mother" appeared. All I
am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I
received from her." -George Washington (1732-1799)   A Mother's Love Author Unknown There are times when only a Mother's love Can understand our tears, Can soothe our disappoints And calm all of our fears. There are times when only a Mother's love Can share the joy we feel When something we've dreamed about Quite suddenly is real. There are times when only a Mother's faith Can help us on life's way And inspire in us the confidence We need from day to day. For a Mother's heart and a Mother's faith And a Mother's steadfast love Were fashioned by the Angels And sent from God above. It is a day when children honor their mothers with cards, gifts, and flowers. First observance in Philadelphia, Pa. in 1907, it is based on suggestions by Julia Ward Howe in 1872 and by Anna Jarvis in 1907. 8 Although it wasn't celebrated in the U.S. until 1907, there were days honoring mothers even in the days of ancient Greece. In those days, however, it was Rhea, the Mother of the gods that was given honor. Later, in the 1600's, in England there was an annual observance called "Mothering Sunday." It was celebrated during
June, on the fourth Sunday. On Mothering Sunday,
the servants, who generally lived with their employers, were encouraged to return home and honor their mothers. After all Mother's Day is the day devoted to all the mothers in the world. And hence it is the perfect time when we can express our
tender love and care for our mothers, for their friendly gestures and warm hugs that they
have showered upon us. Mother's Day is
celebrated through out the world in order to
honor the Mothers. Although the dates and months of celebrating this day might differ from country to country, still the occasion holds equally great significance for each one. In the United States, Mother's Day is celebrated in the second
week of May. The Mother's Day 2009 will be celebrated on May 10th in the United States. The United Kingdom will celebrate '' or on 22nd March 2009.