The red appearance of this water is due to iron in the rocks. Iron is the sixth most in the ,
formed as the final act of by burning in massive stars. While it makes up about 5% of the ,
the is believed to consist
largely of an iron- alloy constituting 35% of the mass of the Earth as a whole. Iron is
consequently the most abundant element on Earth, but only the fourth most abundant element in
the Earth's crust. Most of the iron in the
crust is found combined with as minerals such
as and . About 1 in 20 consist of the
unique iron-nickel minerals (35 80% iron) and (90
95% iron). Although rare, are the major form of natural metallic iron on the Earth's surface.
abundant element universe nucleosynthesis carbon Earth's crust earth's core nickel [3]
oxygen iron oxide hematite magnetite meteorites taenite kamacite meteorites Alloy steels
chromium vanadium molybdenum nickel tungsten
are used in the production of media in computers. They are often mixed with other compounds,
and retain their magnetic properties in solution. Iron(III) oxides magnetic storage The main
disadvantage of iron and steel is that pure iron, and most of its alloys, suffer badly from if
not protected in some way. , , , plastic
coating and are some techniques
used to protect iron from rust by excluding
and or by sacrificial protection. rust Painting galvanization passivation bluing water oxygen
[] edit Iron compounds Iron
chloride hexahydrate Iron oxides (FeO, FeO, and FeO) are used for iron production (see and
). They are also used in the3423 ores bloomery blast furnace Space Shuttle Solid Rocket
Boosters [] citation needed Iron(III)
acetate (Fe(CHO) is used in
the of .2323 dyeing
cloth Iron(III)
ammonium oxalate (Fe(NH)(CO)) is used in .43244 blueprints Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency in Australia. Follow the links below to find information about daily requirements and sources of this essential mineral. Updated October 2007 Better Health Channel Description:   Babies,
toddlers, preschoolers and
teenagers are at higher risk of iron deficiency,
because their increased needs
for iron may not be met if their
diet is not balanced. Treatment
for iron deficiency anaemia in children starts with dietary change but may include iron supplements (under medical supervision only). Date:   Better Health Channel
Description:   Causes of iron deficiency in
adults include
inadequate dietary intake, chronic blood loss (through menstruation or other causes),
times of increased need such as pregnancy, inability to absorb or properly use iron and
vigorous exercise. Iron deficiency can lead to anaemia. Last week I posted, Pale and Worried.
My first thought was to check
out WebMD to attempt an initial self diagnosis - you know, because I am a trained physician.
Nevertheless, "Greg" posted a comment about a site call Revolution Health. Once I logged onto the site I had a revelation. Perhaps Muddear is pale because of her
anemia. (It only ... Read on
» Healthy Moms Dictionary - Anemia by Cascia T. Image courtesy of Wikipedia There are several
different forms of anemia. Abnormal thyroid
function tests in infants with congenital hypothyroidism: The influence of soy-based
formulas. 1997;16:280-2. J Am
Coll Nutr Centanni M, Gargano L, Canettieri G, et al.
Thyroxine in goiter, infection, and chronic gastritis. 2006;354:1787-95. Helicobacter pyloriN
Engl J Med Brinker F. Sandy, OR: Eclectic Institute, 1997, 21, 29-30. Herb
Contraindications and Drug Interactions. Benvenga S, Bartolone L, Squadrito S, et al.
Delayed intestinal
absorption of levothyroxine.
1995;5:249-53. Thyroid Threlkeld DS, ed. Hormones, Thyroid Hormones. In St. Louis, MO:
Facts and Comparisons, Jun 1991, 132-3c. Facts and Comparisons Drug Information. Liel Y,
Harman-Boehm I, Shany S.
Evidence for a clinically important adverse effect of fiber-enriched diet on the
bioavailability of levothyroxine in adult
hypothyroid patients. Let herbs be your medicine and medicine be your herbs! Iron The
mineral iron forms the most important part of the capture protein hemoglobin in human - this
is involved in binding with oxygen and is part of red blood cells - iron gives blood its
red color. Hemoglobin carries
oxygen bound in the lungs to
the cells and binds with carbon dioxide again as blood flows back from the cells to the lungs
for re-oxygenation.
The mineral iron also forms a vital
component in myoglobin - a molecule related to hemoglobin found in muscles. Myoglobin acts as
the receptor and
storage point for some of the
oxygen found in muscle tissues. The intracellular
cytochrome protein system also requires the presence of iron - this protein system is
involved in energy production in the mitochondria of all cells. Most pizza, cold
breakfast cereal, bread, cookies, crackers and
pasta are made from
iron-enriched flour. Even if a teen isn't eating broccoli, her diet is laced with
iron-fortified pizza and snacks. So why the deficiency? Something is not adding up. Alternative
sources hold that nutrients from whole, natural foods are more effectively assimilated than the
nutrients—natural or
otherwise—from refined foods. What all of
this means, according to Dr. Rothschild, is that "one of lactoferrin's primary functions
in the human body is to act as a first line of defense against all invading pathogens." In
short, lactoferrin not only makes the iron
we absorb from food readily assimilable by the human body (thereby eliminating
iron-deficiency symptoms), it
also deprives infectious organisms of this crucial element needed for their survival and
growth. In a sense, it harmful
organisms in the human body by depriving
them of iron, thus short-circuiting their metabolic functions!starves to death As mentioned earlier, Dr. Rothschild's research has shown that the SBO's in EarthFlora
produce lactoferrin in the human body as a result of their own metabolism. So by taking
EarthFlora regularly, your body will be far better able to absorb, assimilate and utilize the iron
supplied by the food you eat. Iron
supplements should become completely unnecessary, once your body begins taking advantage of the
increased levels of lactoferrin supplied by the EarthFlora. Several studies have shown that
high blood levels of iron are associated with an increased risk of suffering heart attacks
and cancers,
particularly, those of the esophagus and bladder. A study from Harvard showed that it may be
the meat source of iron, rather than just the iron itself, that causes ... However, the
adoption of microbiological surveillance of
endoscopes and AFERs is not universal; the American College of Chest Physicians and American
Association for Bronchology and a panel representing a number of United States Gastroenterology and Infection Control groups11 makes no recommendation for routine
surveillance cultures of endoscopes and only 17% of Northeastern USA endoscopy units perform
endoscope surveillance cultures. Search This Site In reality, what most Americans need to do
is increase their bodily levels of lactoferrin, so that the iron from the foods they eat --- --- is more thoroughly assimilated.which is more than adequate for the
human system In fact, as Dr. Peter Rothschild points out in his recently published
research report on the Biology of Lactoferrin, "Of the 750 million people on this planet
who suffer from iron deficiency symptoms, less
than half of them
suffer from any actual lack of iron in their diet." Read on » The Anemia Legacy by Matt M.
Anemia continues to affect millions of
people around the world despite increasing
availability of iron. This presents a puzzle of sorts, as to why this conditon would
continue despite an obvious and relatively cheap solution of iron supplementation.A new study
looks at anemia from an
evolutionary perspective and provides some
answers. The authors ... Read
on » Herbal and Natural Remedies for Anemia by Get Healthy Here is a list of some of the
common herbal and natural
treatments and remedies for Anemia: Ferrous sulfate Folate Iron supplement Vitamin b12 Vitamin b12
supplements Vitamin b6 Of course, these are just some of the common herbal and natural
treatments and remedies for
Anemia.You can connect with experts and
other people who have Anemiain the ... Read on »
Sitemap Microbiological Testing Guidelines
Microbiological surveillance of endoscopes and automated flexible endoscope reprocessors
(AFERs) has proven to be one
of the most difficult and controversial areas of infection control in endoscopy. Surveillance cultures of endoscopes and AFERs as a quality control measure has been
recommended by the Gastroenterological Society of Australia and the Gastroenterological
Nurses College of Australia Inc since 1951 and endoscope surveillance cultures were also recommended by
the New Zealand Standards Expert Committee in 2002. As a result, the majority of endoscopy
units in Australia and New
Zealand have routinely been performing these cultures. Endoscope surveillance cultures are
also recommended by the French Gastroenterology Society, Canadian endoscopy working group,
the German Working Group on Hospital Hygeine, the Robert Koch Institute the Asian Pacific
Society of Digestive Endoscopy and the European Society of Gastroenterology and European
Society of Gastroenterology and
Endoscopy Nurses and Associates have recently published formal guidelines8 for this practice.
Of course, this creates a serious problem when
individuals suffering from alleged "iron deficiency" begin taking iron supplements. What happens
is that the additional iron being ingested
does absolutely nothing to alleviate the iron deficiency symptoms, because it, too, remains unassimilated by the body. As a result, the body becomes inundated with
iron that it simply cannot assimilate and utilize. Worse yet, that excess iron soon begins to
support the growth of
infectious agents throughout the human
body, due to the fact that harmful bacteria, yeasts, viruses and other parasites have a
continuous metabolic need for iron, and tend
to thrive in an iron-rich environment! On the other hand, when iron is carried through the
body by lactoferrin, as it is meant to be, greater than 95% of it is assimilable. Foods particularly high in iron include meat, green vegetables, blackstrap
molasses, seaweed, poultry, fish, eggs, prunes and legumes. While whole grains contain iron,
they contain phytic acid which inhibits iron absorption. To eliminate this problem, ferment,
sprout or soak your grains. This is accomplished
by favoring sourdough or sprouted breads and by soaking whole grains for 8 to 10 hours
prior to cooking.
Iron deficiency symptoms may
include anemia, fatigue,
digestive problems, decreased alertness, intolerance
to cold,
susceptibility to chronic infections and frequent
colds. People at high risk of iron deficiency are menstruating women, children, teenagers and anyone lacking adequate nutrition. Note, however, that not everyone is
iron deficient and iron overload is problematic. Non-menstruating women and men susceptible
to hemochromatosis can have
toxic amounts of iron in their bodies. Should
you have excess iron, an
easy—and altruistic—way to lower your iron levels is to periodically donate blood to the Red
Cross. Do NOT rely solely on the information
in this article. disclaimer Learn
more about the authors of Using Medicines with Vitamins and Herbs The information presented
in Healthnotes is for informational purposes only. It
is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or ), clinical experience, or traditional usage
as cited in each article. The results reported may not necessarily occur in all individuals.
For many of the conditions
discussed, treatment with
prescription or over the counter medication is also available. Consult your doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any
supplements or before making any changes in prescribed medications. The same sources also
hold that your iron
is squandered when you eat
highly refined foods. Here's why. Refined
foods like sugar and flour challenge your
digestive system. Refined wheat, for example, has its iron and over 40 other nutrients
removed, leaving only carbohydrate and some protein. For digestion to occur, your gut first
attempts to patch up this broken grain. It
does so by extracting
the missing nutrients from your bones, tissues and nerves. Thus, eating refined foods—even a
bowl of
iron-fortified Wheat
Chex—depletes your reserves of iron and other nutrients. If your diet is generally good but
you eat a fair amount of sugar, white bread or pasta, be aware that this can undermine your
health in the long term. Haem iron is absorbed more easily by the body and is found in beef, lamb, liver, kidney, pork, poultry and seafood. Only about 5% of
non-haem iron is absorbed and
is found in vegetables, bread, breakfast
cereals, beans, eggs and fruit.
Red meat can help to increase absorption, boosting the use of non-haem iron by up to four
times. Vitamin C has a similar effect. It
is important for growth, sperm production, night vision, appetite, sense of taste and smell, maintaining
a strong immune system and for
wound healing. Zinc is widely distributed in foods, but the amounts available for absorption
vary. Beef and lamb have a high
zinc content. Red meats, especially kidneys and liver, are higher in zinc than poultry, cheese,
grains, legumes or vegetables. Beef and lamb
are the most commonly eaten sources of zinc in
New Zealand. If a
food provides all the
essential amino acids for human needs, it is
called a high quality protein
food. Beef and lamb are high quality protein foods with an optimum balance of essential amino acids. A serving of 100g cooked lean beef or lamb provides about 27-30g of protein. Plant proteins, on the other hand, do not have the correct balance of amino acids for human needs, so are considered low quality
protein. Plant proteins can be combined to
give the full complement of essential amino acids, eg baked beans on toast. B Vitamins B
group vitamins regulate many chemical reactions necessary to maintain health. Some help
release energy in the body, some help to maintain good vision and healthy skin, some are
important for optimal brain
function, while others are needed
for the manufacture of red blood cells. Beef and lamb contain vitamin B1, B2, B3, B6 and are
particularly important
dietary sources of vitamin
B12. Its only significance is that of an intermediate step on the way from to and . Pig
iron [5] sulfur silicon phosphorus iron ore cast iron steel contains 2 4% , 1 6% , and
small amounts of . Contaminants
present in pig iron that negatively affect material
properties, such as sulfur and phosphorus, have been reduced to an acceptable level. It
has a melting point in the range of 1420
1470 K, which is lower than
either of its two main components, and makes it the first product to be melted when
carbon and iron are heated
together. Its mechanical
properties vary greatly, dependent upon the
form takes in the alloy. "White" cast irons
contain their carbon in the form of , or iron carbide. In high nutrient, low chlorophyll
areas, it is now clearly established that iron limits
phytoplankton productivity but its biogeochemical role in low nutrient, low chlorophyll
environments has been poorly studied. We investigated this question in the unexplored southeast Pacific,
arguably the most oligotrophic
area of the global ocean. Situated far from any continental aerosol source, the atmospheric
iron flux to this province is amongst the lowest of the world ocean. Here we report that,
despite low dissolved iron
concentrations (~0.1 nmol l-1) measured across the whole gyre (3 stations situated in the
center, the western
and the eastern edge),
photosynthesis and primary productivity are only limited by iron availability at the border
of the gyre, but not in the
center. The seasonal stability of the gyre has apparently allowed for the development of populations acclimated to these extreme oligotrophic conditions. Moreover, despite clear evidence of nitrogen limitation in the central gyre, we were unable to measure nitrogen fixation in our experiments, even after
iron and/or phosphate additions, and cyanobacterial nifH gene abundances were extremely low
compared to the North Pacific Gyre. 1991;265:2688-91. JAMA Schneider DL, Barrett-Connor EL,
Morton DJ. Thyroid hormone use and bone mineral density in elderly men. 1995;155:2005-7. Arch
Intern Med Franklyn JA, Betteridge J, Daykin J, et al. Long-term thyroxine treatment and bone
mineral density. 1992;340:9-13. Lancet Schneyer CR. Calcium carbonate and reduction of
levothyroxine efficacy. 1998;279:750. JAMA Singh N, Singh PN, Hershman JM. Effect of calcium
carbonate on the absorption of levothyroxine. 2000;283:2822-5. JAMA Beard JL, Borel MJ, Derr
J. Impaired thermoregulation and thyroid function in iron-deficiency anemia. 1990;52:813-9.
Am J Clin Nutr Beard JL, Borel MJ, Derr J. Impaired thermoregulation and thyroid function in
iron deficiency anemia. 1990;52:813-9.     The Official 10,000 Steps Program is the simple, natural way to a renewed sense of wellbeing, feeling fit and maintaining
your ideal weight.®   First, the 10,000
Steps Pedometer is your motivation key to better health. It counts the number of steps you take
in each day so you can set daily activity goals and increase them over time. (Research
shows that the YAMAX step1 Pedometer is the
most reliable and accurate pedometer, Bassett et al., 2003.). .®New Zealand’s independent product watchdog Consumer Magazine recently identified the YAMAX SW700 as
their model of choice in a survey of all commercially
available pedometers   By incorporating
natural activity into your day, you take more steps and get fitter faster. The Official 10,000
Steps Guide takes you through the 1, 2, 3
steps to 10,000 Steps a day, easily. There are lots
of ideas for getting more steps into every day too. An asterisk (*) next to an item in the
summary indicates that the interaction is supported only by weak, fragmentary, and/or
contradictory scientific evidence. Interactions with Supplements Calcium Thyroid hormones
have been reported to increase urinary loss of calcium. However, recent research suggests
that, under most circumstances, taking thyroid
hormones may not be
associated with reduced bone density. Calcium supplementation for people taking long-term
thyroid medication has not
yet been proven to be either helpful or
necessary. 1 , 2 3
Simultaneous ingestion of some calcium formulations with levothyroxine has been reported to
reduce the effectiveness of levothyroxine. For example, 1,200 mg per day of calcium as
calcium carbonate, taken along with levothyroxine, significantly reduced absorption of the
thyroid hormone. Levothyroxine
activity will not be blocked if it is taken in the morning and calcium carbonate is taken
after lunch and dinner. Separating these medications by at least four hours is recommended.