Voyager 2 completed both of those missions and is currently performing scientific experiments in interstellar space. On the chance that someone is out there, NASA approved the placement of a phonograph record on each of the Voyager spacecraft. The recording, called "Sounds of Earth" fits on a 12-inch, copper disc
containing greetings from Earth
people in 60
languages, samples of music from different cultures and eras, and natural sounds of surf, wind and thunder, and birds, whales and other animals. This aids the geomancer in tuning the site and in knowing at what point on the cycle the peaks will occur.
Commercial Break! Great
Archaeo-astronomical Software! 602 Morninghome Road, Danville, CA 94526 USA e-mail: information at
carinasoft.com Phone: +1 (925) 838-0695 Fax: +1 (925) 838-0535Voyager 4 Carina Software What makes Voyager 4 so nice is that you can adjust the horizon – an absolutely necessary part of this work. Voyager II's horizon-adjustment equipment could be a lot better - but it is the only astronomy software I know of at this time that allows you to build in the horizon-level. Scotty doesn't
have much to do
except help steal the . Chekov
gives a third of the self-destruct
sequence that destroys the . Uhura runs a transporter platform in Space Dock and Sulu wears a flowing leather cape. Stories that are strong actually give all the characters something to do - a purpose that moves the story along. This point alone is where and excel. The Bird-of-Prey made its
first appearance as a Klingon ship - the term had been Romulan in . A brief history of the Star Trek films, based on the television series.Star Trek: A Motion Picture History Dedicated to the first 6 Star trek Movies, with pictures and stories.Jadeite's Star trek Movies Page Includes plot information, reviews, and pictures for the first nine movies.Ex Astris Scientia Includes a plot
summary, pictures, and production credits for the first ten movies.Section 31 Forums, chat, and news regarding fan films.Hidden Frontier A critical look at the highs and lows of the movies.The Sci-Fi Movie Page Includes news, scripts, pictures, plot, and cast information for the ten movies.TrekPulse Movies
Winter Solstice Sunrise Calendar II, Central Vermont, USA Again, notice the notch on the horizon Photo Byron Dix The ancients used this knowledge to better calculate and intuit when the earth energies would be at their peak. If the energy-ley that runs down the major axis of the site is oriented to the Summer Solstice Sunrise, then that will be the day when that particular site will
experience a peak of power. - Lunar flyby, missed
Moon due to launcher failure
December 1958 Pioneer 3 - Lunar flyby, achieved Earth , launched March 1959 Pioneer 4 escape velocity [] edit Later Pioneer missions (1965-1978) Five years after the early Able space probe missions ended, used the Pioneer name
for a new series of missions, initially aimed at the inner solar system, before the bold flyby missions to and . While successful, the missions returned much poorer images than the five years later.