K8ZT's WEB SITE HAS MOVED You will be redirected to the new site automatically in 5 seconds or click the link below to go to
the site immediately.   Don't forget to bookmark or create a favorite for the new site  
  Thanks toAlan L Waller, K3TKJ for his free hosting of ham radio web sites at http://www.qsl.net. He got me and many, many others started in producing their first web sites. Alan's work is a real gift to the ham community. Stop by start your own ham radio website and make a donation to help support
his fine efforts. http://www.qsl.net HF - Beam Antennas The two companies want to get the cost for the strap and antenna down to under 5 cents. "That's one of our goals," says Lawrence. "We work closely with
Alien. They provide us with their straps, and we're experimenting with different inks and mounting techniques to make that happen." The new facility will house
laboratories, a state-of-the-art pressroom, and advanced technologies. The company will work with its customers -- large packaging and printing companies -- to develop both new conductive inks and new printing applications, based on the customers' existing printing processes. stand alone inductive coupler phone cradle. Accessories TESSCO carries a complete
line of adapters, antennas, and amplifiers for nearly any wireless phone or data card. Just visit our , enter the manufacturer and model of your phone/data card, and look under the Antenna Adapter Cable section or RF Power Amp for compatible products. Phone Accessories Search Page Wilson Electronics Can Help Improve Reception, Battery Life and Data Speed The new  is , apartments, condominiums, and dormitories, and features 50dB of gain. Laird TechnologiesT-pcm™ phase change thermal interface materials are engineered to improve the functionality and processing speeds and meet
the demanding thermal, reliability, and cost requirements of computer applications found in
computer
notebooks, desktops, and servers. All T-pcm™ phase change thermal interface materials exceed the requirements of the RoHS Directive 2002/95/EC, issued January 2003, and the tighter environmental specifications
embraced by Laird Technologiesworldwide OEM customers. "With the
launch of T-pcm™ 670 and T-pcm™ 680, Laird Technologies is targeting mobile PCs and other applications where reliability and
performance are critical considerations," said Michael Sutsko, Laird TechnologiesGeneral Manager, Thermal Products Business Unit. In addition to a written summary, a ProSoft Technology Path Study includes information as shown below: Figures & represent site
coordinates, their
corresponding elevations, applicable tower heights, recommended antenna types at which site the antenna should be aimed, and the distance between the sites in the network.AB Any Path Study fees are credited to your RadioLinx radio order.
For additional information on the RadioLinx line of wireless
industrial communications solutions, please visit
www.prosoft-technology.com. Laird Technologies, Inc., a global leader in the design and supply of customized
performance-critical components and systems for advanced electronics and wireless products, today announced two new
products in its T-pcmphase change line of thermal interface materials, T-pcm™ 670 and
T-pcm 680™. The
new products are optimized for Intel Penryn Quad-core mobile processor. The unique material formulation softens at regular
chip operating temperatures to fill the microscopic irregularities found in the surfaces of the microchip package and heat-sink. The proprietary mix of thermally conductive fillers and resins minimizes resin migration and pump-out to extend the lifetime of
the electronic device. Broadband Antennas and Techniques: Biconical, Helical, Yagi-Uda. 9. Reconfigurable Antennas. 10. Small
and Fractal Antennas. 11. Smart Antennas: Arrays, Adaptive Arrays and Algorithms. 12. Wideband
Elements and Arrays. 13. Synthesis Methods. 14. Double Negative Index
Materials for Antennas. 15. Artificial Magnetic
Conductors for Antennas. 16. Hard-Soft Surfaces for Antennas. 17. Frequency
Selective Surfaces for Antennas. 18. Radar Cross Sections (RCS) for Antennas. 19. Near-to-Far Field Transformations. 20. MEMS for Antennas. 21. Integrated Antenas for Personal Communications. 22. Antenas for
Medical Applications 23. Antennas for SIMO/MIMO Communication Systems. 24. Authentic Advocacy: How Businesses & Non-Profits Can Change the World Together February 19, 2009. Technology has
brought us all
together, but will it lift us up? The Interconnected Age has put every person within your reach, but that doesn’t mean people will instantly take action for problems you want them to solve. While many people are talking about cause marketing, not many can tell you what it [...] Posts Tagged ‘history of communication’ The company is a global market leader in
the design and supply of electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding, thermal management products, mechanical actuation systems, signal integrity components, and wireless antennae solutions, as well as radio frequency (RF) modules and systems.  Custom
products are supplied to all sectors of the electronics industry including the handset, telecommunications, data transfer and information technology, automotive, aerospace, defense, consumer, medical, and industrial markets. Laird Technologies, a unit of Laird PLC, employs over 14,000 employees in more than 40 facilities located in
14 countries. For additional information or your nearest Laird Technologies
representative, contact: Tel:         (866) 928-8181 or (636) 898-6000 Fax:        (636) 898-6100 Internet:  www.lairdtech.com e-mail:    sales@lairdtech.comAbout Laird Technologies, Inc. Other sizes available. Contact the factory for details. Includes one
1/2 oz. tube of antioxidant (#HCAJC1/2). Meets "BICSI" and EIA/TIA 607 standards.   Proud Member of Afcea | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ©Copyright 2008  Antenna Systems & Solutions, Inc. All Rights Reserved. [ —> —> —> —> —> —> ] Home Astronomy Biology Chemistry Geology Mathematics Physics Psychology Human knowledge is but an accumulation of small facts,
made by successive generations of men, the little bits of knowledge and experience carefully treasured up by them growing at length into a mighty pyramid. Though
many of these facts and observations seemed in the first instance to have but slight significance, they are all found to have their eventual uses, and to fit into their proper places. Even many speculations seemingly remote, turn out to be the basis of results the most obviously practical. The calendar stores appointments and to-do lists. Synchronize your calendar and contact list with your PC or PDA. Your messaging just got better, too.    T65SPECIFICATIONSSOLD-OUT The Ericsson T65 gives you one-button access to the Mobile Internet. Press and hold the blue access key and you
are instantly
connected to a world of entertainment and
news and can start to download pictures and ring signals
right away. You can create transformational change when you use the antennas on the mountaintop to provide a common message and inspire the people in the valleys to interact, spread, customize, and amplify your
message. We have always lived, worked, and played with each other.
For most of our history, we did all this in small groups. These groups grew, spreading out across
great distances and
having great obstacles between us. As our technology has advanced, so has our ability to live, work, and play with others -
both near and far away.A More Detailed Exploration: Dan Lawrence, manager of print as manufacture, will report to Rohrkemper. "We see printed RFID antennas as one of the early applications for the effort," says Lawrence, who has been working on the conductive inks project for three years. "Beyond that, we're looking at replacing discrete components in electronic wherever possible with conductive inks. The Picture Phonebook feature lets you assign a picture to a contact in the phone book so you can see who's calling. The T65 also supports cool features such as background
picture, Mobile Chat, calendar and four games.   R380 World
SPECIFICATIONSSOLD-OUT The Ericsson R380 World gives you access to all GSM services in Europe, Asia/Pacific, Africa and the
Americas. This
small-sized dual
band "smartphone" combines the functions of a mobile phone with advanced communication features such as WAP services, SMS and e-mail. It has a
complete
range of PDA-like tools including address book, calendar, notepad and support for synchronization with industry-leading PC applications. It is available in two distinct
colours:
Classic Blue and Desert Green. Chance, Luck, and
Statistics by Horace C. Levinson read more £12.95 Clear, thorough account, without complicated mathematics, explains the two
models of holography-the geometric and the zone... The Complete Book of Holograms: How They Work and How to Make Them by Steven A. Feller read more £12.95 Newly revised and updated introduction to time-its measurement, historic methods of timekeeping, uses of time information, and role of time in science and technology. Over 300
illus. From Sundials to Atomic Clocks: Understanding Time and Frequency, Second Revised Edition by Jane Fitz-Randolph read more £12.95 Undergraduate text uses combinatorial approach to accommodate both math majors and liberal arts students. Multiplicativity-divisibility, quadratic congruences, additivity, more. Our Middle East company; is specialised on E-trade and E-transactions. McGordons LLC Available models March 2003 We do not sell
less than 5,000 units / order.   Quick links to project and projects within McGordons. Sony Ericsson T-300N E W Designed for elegance, but definitely not just a pretty face. Clean design, distinctive lines, a full-colour screen and quality materials on the surface. And underneath an amazing array of features.  We have more , or you may just click on the SonyEricsson logo and can find all the details
about T300 at their web/portal. details here Sony Ericsson MC25N E W Just being updated..... Sony Ericsson T-61z No
stockavailable Sony Ericsson T61z, the model which has everything you need to unleash your potential.  Britney Spears Fast Facts: Auditioned in 1990 at age 8 for but was turned down due to being too young.The Mickey Mouse Club Played a murderous child in the campy off-Broadway musical in 1991.Ruthless! Competed on in 1992 and won (but was defeated the second week).Star Search Appeared alongside Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera on after finally joining the cast in 1993.The Mickey Mouse Club Guest-starred on in 1999 and the following year.Sabrina, the Teenage WitchThe
Simpsons Shared a headline-making kiss with Madonna at the 2003 MTV Music Video Awards. Gave birth to her second child in September, 2006. Weight 3.3 ounces (150g) Power Requirements: 13.8 VDC @ 190 milliamps RF Pulse Duration for Maximum Accuracy: 32 milliseconds minimum E), in Statistical Mode onlyHigh Accuracy (+/- 1.40625 The p/n 6500 is a turnkey, ready
to use covert vehicle direction finding system complete with high performance receiver, front
panel receiver controls, 20 segment LED bargraph signal strength (range) indicator, battery test indicator, large speaker, internal gelcell rechargeable batteries for 4 hour operation, battery charger, 12VDC cigar lighter power cable, remote control head with 5 foot cable, and motion sensing FCC type accepted vehicle tracking
beacon.Tracker The #6500 is packaged in a rugged, waterproof Pelican case with internal storage compartment for the control head, cables and beacon. Consisting of a 4-antenna DF array for magnetic mounting on a vehicle and an enhanced Doppler DF processor with proprietary DSP algorithms, the is ready
to monitor
almost any type of electronic tracking
beacon and provide you with a bearing and relative range to the signal.TrackerTracker       Specifically designed for law enforcement and military applications, the overcomes the serious problem of multipath interference common to
virtually every other radio direction finder. Two powerful microprocessors apply newly developed algorithms to analyze and discard confusing indications due to phase shift from multipath
signals. Multi site RDF networks are simple to implement. The includes an RS232 port, and the unit can overlay NMEA GPS
data from virtually any GPS receiver onto the DF bearing and output the data to
a laptop running a mapping program. Additionally, our software can be used to implement small or large area coverage
multi-site applications where DF bearings from all-equipped stations are linked via a packet data channel and displayed simultaneously in realtime on all computers in the net. This application is common in man-critical work such as kidnaping/ransom tracking, executive protection, drug interdiction, etc. An illustration of this
building will be found in the book already referred to above and in other works
such as the Official Guide to Glasgow, 1905. One of the key operations of the
Observatory was a contract to provide the City with accurate time and to supply the Yorkhill Quay with a one o'clock time signal for the mariners to allow checking of their chronometers before leaving the Clyde. This includes the efficient
operation of the new telecommunications regulatory regime, provision of telecommunications service obligations such as the Kiwi Share and management of international obligations. We advise on the social and economic impacts of information and communications technology, and promote the development and uptake of e-commerce, ICT skills
and ICT infrastructure across New Zealand. The Minister for Communications and
Information
Technology approved a robust plan for the operational separation of Telecom on 30 March 2008. Operational Separation of Telecom On 3 May 2006, the Government announced a package of measures to address New Zealand's relatively poor broadband performance. Telecommunications Stocktake Featured Products New High Efficiency Mobile Mount Models PCTEL announces three new high frequency mounts designed to
provide maximum efficiency for microwave mobile applications. These mounts are designed to interface with the following
PCTEL mobile antennas: Elevated feed model covering frequencies of 4.9-5.0 GHz with 5 dBi
gain. Elevated feed model covering frequencies of 5.7-5.8 GHz with 5.5 dBi gain. Low
profile vertical antenna covering frequencies of 4.9-5.0 GHz with 3 dBi gain. No ground plane required. MEFC49005HF: • For tuning and testing Yagi Antennas • Connects Yagi to any Wilson External Antenna Adapter • Attenuates signal less than 0.4 dB • N-Male / FME-Female Connectors 6-feet RG-174 Coaxial Cable (951116) • For indoor use • Connects Direct Connection amplifier to any Wilson External Antenna Adapter • Connects Mobile Wireless amplifier to Small Antenna • Attenuates signal less than 2 dB • FME-Female / FME-Female Connectors I haven't done much with that type of
research as nobody seems willing or interested in funding it. davidbfpo 12-16-2008, 11:38 PM Amidst the post-conviction reporting is a BBC article on mobilephone examination and tracing the suspects: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/glasgow_and_west/7783737.stm davidbfpo selil 12-16-2008, 11:49 PM Amidst the post-conviction reporting is a BBC article on
mobilephone examination and tracing the suspects: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/glasgow_and_west/7783737.stm davidbfpo Oooh I like that. One of my CERIAS brethren is a specialist in cell phone forensics. I still can't figure out why Counter Terrorism groups usually throw so much evidence away.
If I can see a cell phone I can track that phone forever from a distance even if they
change their SIM card. Available with a 12" magnet mount or a 4" mini-magnet
mount, the Mobile Pro easily moves from vehicle to building, because the kits include an outside magnet-mount antenna, USB power cable, DC power supply with USB port, AC power supply with USB port, suction cup window-mount antenna bracket, dashboard bracket, carry bag, and installation guide. Mobile Cellular Signal Amplifier Kit with Cradle Enhancing cellular
signal within a vehicle has never been easier!
Wilson Electronics has taken the best-selling . All of the necessary cables, connectors and power adapters are included in
the box, so with one SKU your customers are good to go! SignalBoost amplifier, and coupled it with the new inductive cradle and an external, dual-band antenna The New Unit Features Just one HINT (http://news.uns.purdue.edu/x/2008b/081120BullockFootball.html) but look at that and think Iraqi mob, or Greek riots... Blue tooth address targeting JDAM davidbfpo 12-16-2008, 10:26 PM Selil, I
appreciate there is a difference between knowledge within the parts of LE and intel communities compared to the public domain - itself a spectrum of knowledge. This article refers to a court case and so is important in placing this surveillance technology in the public domain. Maybe there are other court cases in the USA, I know not.   Vehicle Tracking Transmitter "Bumper Beeper" P/N TRV-2W - Vehicle Beacon with Motion Sensor Use the to
follow and locate body wires, vehicle tracking beacons, tagged CDS shipments or cash packages, stuck transmitters,
pirate/stolen transmitters, deliberate or
inadvertent interference, covert beacons, HAZMAT shipments, etc. Anywhere you need to follow an RF signal is a job for
theTrackerTracker. Tracker Specifications Frequency coverage: 50 - 1300 megacycles.
Antenna p/n 6011 covers 50-700 megacycles. Antenna p/n 6010 covers 700-1300 megacycles. Investigate and list the
characteristics
of the
wave. Have students identify advantages and
disadvantages of AM communication.   27.4 To draw a block diagram of an FM transmitter. (COM) Discuss the purpose of each section.   27.5 To draw a block diagram of an FM receiver. Provide an explanation of the purpose of each section.   27.6 To list the
characteristics of the FM waveform. Discuss the action of an FM waveform.   27.7 To
list two advantages and two disadvantages of FM communication. (COM, CCT) Have the students investigate the characteristics
of the wave. Determine the advantages
and disadvantages of FM communication.   Module 27B: Communications, Antennas (Optional) 10 - 15 hoursSuggested time: Looking for a WiFi or WiMAX antenna for your bridging or in-building wireless network? PCTEL Antenna Products manufactures networking antennas and accessories for 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g WiFi (Wi-Fi) and WiMAX applications, including
wireless bridging, wireless LANs, RFID and wireless hots
spots. Our LMR land mobile radio and public safety antenna line includes base station, mobile data and voice and portable antennas, as well as cable assemblies,
connectors and mounting brackets
designed to make
antenna installation simple and cost-effective. The NPRO 125/126 lasers are used for a variety of applications including fiberoptic sensing, coherent communications, remote antenna links, optical heterodyne, lidar oscillators, and passive sonar. At the heart
of each NPRO 125/126 laser is JDSUs unique, monolithic, NPRO laser cavity delivering true single-frequency laser output. Since its initial development in 1985, NPRO technology has demonstrated a record of reliability and top-level performance. Amplitude noise for a typical NPRO 125/126 laser is <0.05% rms over the range from 10 Hz to 2 MHz, and less than -165 dB/Hz above 10 MHz (shot noise limited).   1-866-292-0439 It's easy to with fast FREE installation of up to 4 rooms of DirectTV service including satellite dish, free DVR (Digital Video Recorder) or HD (High Definition)
upgrade, and Direct
TV local and national programming with available of premium movies, family programming,
music, news, sports, and entertainment. You can even get up to 72 XM
Satellite Radio music stations included! You can't get all that on the old fashioned .
and in no time you can be enjoying up to of
premium movies, family programming, music, news, sports, and entertainment in addition to your Wilson local TV channels! Special Presidents Day Offer! Save up to $23 a month! 88186608Call Now!1-866-292-0439