Mickey
Tovey, principal of Christ the King Parish , contacted Mariann Smith, an IPSS social worker assigned part-time to the school, to tell her about the accident and to request assistance with grief counseling for the school’s 100 students and their families...  School   New Ministry-Fund Grants Target Wide Range of Community Needs Striving to address unmet needs in communities served by the Alexian Brothers, the Board of Directors of the Alexian Brothers
Ministry Fund
has
earmarked
more than $94,000 for initiatives ranging from free dental care for the poor to the prevention of suicide among young people... Flu Vaccinations Available Now! DON'T LET THE FLU MAKE YOUR COMPANY SICK - Book Your 2008 Flu Vaccination Clinic Today The best way to protect against the flu is
to get a flu vaccination each year. As your corporate wellness partner, we are committed to the health of your organization. The flu season typically begins in October and continues through March. Dates will fill fast so take advantage of pre-season scheduling.Call 847-385-7170 or email Wellness@alexian.net today for more information or to schedule a
convenient onsite flu clinic. The goal of Patient Safety is to reduce
mortality and morbidity and to improve the identification, analysis and reduction of risks, which could have or has caused preventable patient injury and impairment of patient safety. Patient safety
includes ongoing analysis and intervention, utilizing both internal and external information to prevent error occurrence
and to
maintain and improve patient safety throughout the medical center. Patient safety is designed to reduce medical errors and unsafe conditions through a systematic, coordinated and continuous approach to improve patient safety. We believe that cooperation among the Alexian Brothers, civic and Church authorities, and those in partnership with our mission
is essential. We believe that it is necessary for all who collaborate with us in Catholic Health Care to be professionally competent and to have an
understanding of our philosophy and mission. Therefore, education to this end is essential. The Alexian Brothers Hospital Network has delivered a wide
range of top quality pediatric services for some time. As the communities we serve have grown in population and their medical needs have evolved, we are moving forward to build a state of the art facility to house many of these services on the campus of St Alexius in Hoffman Estates.  Named the Alexian Brothers Children’s Hospital this center will provide a medical home for the area’s children and offer our pediatricians and pediatric specialists a
superior
facility in which to practice. Read more about how to take a harper college class at Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health Alexian Brothers Hospital Network's Response to NIU Tragedy Carries on Healing
Tradition Following the February 14 shootings at Northern Illinois University (NIU), mental health officials issued a call for professional counselors to volunteer to help NIU students and staff members as they struggled to cope with the tragedy... Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is committed to the unique and special needs of women-offering family centric care and state-of-the-art nurseries staffed 24/7 by neonatologists and supported by pediatric specialists at both St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian
Brothers Medical Center.
Alexian Brothers Hospital
Network-where families are born. While fighting for her life, ABMC nurse works to save others from breast cancer Spiritual Care is one of the clearest, visible expressions of dedication to the Congregation of Alexian Brothers' Charism and is central to ABHS's identity as a Catholic healthcare provider. Chaplains have been present to comfort patients and
their families in times of crisis, give thanks in times of joy, testify to the love of God, and at times guide
our family of physicians, nurses and employees in matters of the spirit. Alexian Brothers Sleep Health Center About Us A good night's sleep is just as important to our overall health as diet and exercise. In addition to feeling refreshed and alert, sleep plays a key role in helping us fight disease. A lack of sleep may cause you to: Lose concentration
at work or
school Perform less
efficiently > > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us Alexian Brothers Values Alexian Brothers Values We manifest God's presence in the world by a concerned approach and competent care of those we serve.Compassion. Because we believe that all individuals are created in God's image. Therefore, we treat them with
respect.Dignity
of the Person. Alexian Brothers Hospital Network Clinical Trials About Us Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is committed to advancing medicine by developing new ways to treat disease through clinical trials. Clinical trials are research programs conducted with human volunteers to evaluate a new medical treatment, drug or device. Alexian Brothers is currently engaged in over 120 such clinical trials. Those who participate in clinical trials are often the
first ones to receive an investigational drug or gain access to new treatments before they are widely available. Several years ago, when Alexian Brothers Health System announced a long-term plan to expand its network of health-care facilities for residents of Chicago's northwest suburbs, one of the cornerstones of the plan was a rehabilitation hospital.
Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital opened in February 2004 in Elk Grove Village, Illinois, providing patients with the
opportunity to receive first-rate care close to home, without the stress and inconvenience of driving into Chicago...