As long as the cat has a place to
retreat to
and you
teach the puppy to leave the cat alone (granted, easier said than done),
you will work
through problems eventually. Puppies and
kittens tend to get along just fine. Watch out for possible accidental injuries if the puppy is (or will become) much bigger than
the cats. If you
are introducing an adult dog to an adult dog, it will
depend on their temperament and how well they get along with other dogs. Preventive and consistent care is less expensive in the long run. Choose a vet who you are comfortable with and who
will answer your questions. Check
out the office: do animals seem just frightened or are they also out of control? Is it bedlam, or reasonable for the number of
different
animals there? Do
you have local
recommendations from friends?
Does the
vet specialize in small animals as
opposed to, say, livestock? Try to get word-of-mouth
recommendations. A good vet will
either be
associated
with a 24 emergency care plan or be able to
give
you
the number of a
good place in
your
area. Keep this number on your refrigerator and check with
your vet when you visit
that it's still up-to-date. Any time you bring your dog to
the
vet, try to bring a fresh
fecal sample. Put a small, fingernail-sized sample into a
plastic bag, or ask your
vet for a supply of fecal samplers. The vet cannot always
get a fecal sample from the
dog, and this
saves you extra trips to
return
the sample
and then bring
the dog in if the tests are
positive. When you get your
new dog, you might already have pets that you will
need to introduce the new dog to. The first recorded dog show (that we know of) was in 1603 when the Holy Roman Emperor, Rudolf II, organized a field trial in which 480 dogs competed.
Another show, for Schipperkes only, was held in Brussels
in 1690; this event "appears to
have been
one of a regular series organized by Brussels
shoemakers to show off their dogs in their ornate,
intricately worked metal collars," states Frank Jackson,
editor, Faithful Friends: Dogs in Life and Literature (London: Robinson, 1997), p. 359. Jackson continues, in his prefatory essay to Chapter 12, "In Competition": "In 1791
Ignaz
Cernov and Father Martin Pelcl
visited a
dog show which took place in
Prague....It lasted three days. There
were 128
dogs on
exhibition...[including] 10 Poodles..." A show
for
sporting breeds took place
in June, 1859
"as part of a
well-established
poultry show held at the Corn Market, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Move your dog to a cool place such as an air conditioned room. 2. Take
rectal
temperature every 10 minutes to see if it is coming down. 3. If rectal temperature if 104F -110F (40C - 43C) cool your dog with cool water from something like a garden hose or
bucket, a cool
water bath, ice
packs applied to the abdomen or groin area or place in
front of a fan. Seek
veterinary care immediately for
canine heat stroke. Heat stroke can be particularly dangerous if you cannot cool your dog's temperature within 20 minutes 4. Wipe paws with cool water (paws are the only area on a dog that
can sweat). 5.
Once temperature
reaches 103F or less than stop cooling to avoid
hypothermia. Side Effects of Heat Stroke in Dogs These side effects can set in on the same day or within weeks of heat stroke. Be
sure to consult with your
veterinarian. In most dogs if they can survive
for 72
hours
from the onset of the condition, then they should be fine.
Foster and Smith" or many
pet supply sources).   *Do
not leave your dog in the car, muzzle or confine him/her
without shade or confine him/her
to concrete or asphalt surfaces.   *If your dog lives outside, make sure s/he has plenty of fresh, water, and that his/her house or bed is in the shade. For an outside dog, an automatic
dog waterer is a good way to provide clean fresh water.   *If your dog
must be outside on a leash or
cable, be sure it is long
enough for your pup to reach full shade and that there is
nothing for the
leash or
cable to become entangled in. You do
not want
to prevent your pup from
reaching his/her shade and
water! Your
portable "Eye Kit" should include the following first aid items: Eye irrigation solution (or plain saline for contact lenses in a bottle that delivers a fine, low-pressure
stream of liquid) Blunt forceps (e.g. hemostats, blunt
tweezers)
Cotton swabs Several small
absorbent towels (Added: 19-Oct-2003
Hits: 766 Rating: 0 Votes: 0) Rate It First Aid For
Bloat - The procedures in this document should be used to provide first
aid only to dogs in a bloat condition. They
are not intended to replace
prompt, professional treatment by
a qualified
veterinarian. Please read and understand these
instructions completely before
attempting the first aid
procedures
described herein (Added: 19-Oct-2003 Hits: 861 Rating: 1.00 Votes: 1) Rate
It First Aid Kit - First Aid Kit
and
courses in Australia. Low
prices and overnight delivery. (Added: 16-Mar-2005
Hits: 497 Rating: 0 Votes: 0) Rate It
Caniche Caniche is the French name for the modern FCI-recognized Poodle, supposed to have drifted away from the Barbet in the
fourth quarter of the 19th
century. (This theory does not take into account the small Caniche was developed at least 500 years ago...) Yet as late as 1922, Larousse Universel stated that the Caniche was a variety of
Barbet
and "La fidetdu
caniche le fait choisir de prence pour guider les
aveugles..." (loyalty makes this the breed of choice for
guide-dog work; see Guide...). Curly-Coated Retriever/English Water Dog/Water Spaniel The English varieties of the water dog are extinct as separate breeds, but doubtless live
on in our dogs' gene pools. Numerous visual records have survived. (See
particularly Gainsborough and
Stubbs,
"...Visuals".)
The
Curly-Coated
Retriever, which
"evidence suggests that it
existed as early as 1803" is probably "descended
from the extinct English Water Spaniel and the Lesser
Newfoundland
[St. John's Dog/Labrador]." Fogel, p. 192. Epagneul
Pont-Audemer This medium-sized dog is "related to old French spaniels, the Barbet, and...the Irish Water Spaniel....Date of origin: 1600s." Fogle, p. 191. Havanese See Bichon, above.
Hungarian Puli Supposed by Fogle (p. By working
through the course you will learn
the core principles of first aid
and can also specialize in skills
needed to care for either children or
older
dependants. You can return to any of
the stages as often as you need and at your own
convenience. The course content
is based on the
First Aid Manual, the authorized book
of St John Ambulance, the British Red Cross and St
Andrews Ambulance Association. is basically very simple. It keeps the person safe until the seizure stops naturally by itself. It
is important for the public to know how to respond to
all seizures, including the most noticeable kind
-- the generalized tonic
clonic
seizure, or convulsions. These
unique self-guiding CPR
course and First Aid course are
a
cost-effective, time-saving alternative for those
individuals who need to learn the
fundamentals of Basic Life Support but whose schedules may
not permit
lengthy lectures
and expensive instructors. Each
of our
step-by-step CPR
and First Aid lessons are
thoroughly
explained with minimal technical
jargon and include a helpful quick review section. or partially open
windows
with a breeze) during
extremely hot weather. (even with
the windows partially rolled down)
for any reason at
any time. Provide your pet with plenty of fresh water and
plenty of shade. Take extra care with
puppies and kittens. If possible, allow your
pet to acclimate gradually to
high
temperatures. After traveling to
a warmer climate, allow your pet
several days to become
acclimated
before
allowing any
vigorous exercise. Make sure outside cats and dogs have access to shade. Allow your cat and dog to have access to cooler areas of
the house. Dog
Anemia Guide. Learn about the
symptoms,
diagnosis and treatment of
dog anemia. Dog Anemia Anxiety symptom in dog and understanding these
symptoms is a
start to helping your pet. Learn
about the
symptoms, diagnosis and treatment
of canine anxiety. Anxiety Symptom
in Dog Treating arthritis in dogs has many approaches.
Understand the symptoms, treatments
and medicines that can help your
dog today.
Treating
Arthritis in
Dogs Asthma
dog sufferer can be helped by
understanding the treatment options
available. Learn about the
stymptoms,
diagnosis and
treatment of canine asthma. Asthma Dog Sufferer Canine Atopy is a Canine Atopy Dog Behavior Guide. Read about different dog
behaviors and learn about how to
understand and change each behavior. Dog Behavior Dog
Bladder
Problems are due to multiple causes. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of dog bladder issues. Dog Bladder Problems Dog Bleeding. Learn about what to do when
your dog is bleeding. Dog Bleeding Dog Has Bad Breath. Learn about the causes and treatment of bad breath in dogs. Dog Has Bad
Breath Canine Blood Pressure. Learn about how to read dog
blood pressure and what it
means. Canine Blood
Pressure Understand the symptoms,
diagnosis and treatment of the many types of canine
cancer. The Dog Health Guide believes that a dog's best
friend is an informed owner. My
advice would be
to keep your male
and female separated at , even
when
you're around. One moment's
distraction is all it takes for your
male to make the most of
his opportunity,
and an early pregnancy
would be very draining on your
young female.all times As
for your question about dog obstetricians, when the
appropriate time comes, your regular
should be able to
see the two of you through the
process very well. You'll get plenty of advice on healthy
diet,
safe
exercise,
and all necessary medical care
for your female, including ultrasounds, and a C-section
if it turns out to be
necessary.
veterinarian
In fact, now is
the perfect time to scout out a good vet, before you breed your female, so
I recommend you discuss your
future plans with your
current vet, and if you're comfortable with the
answers you
receive, then you might want to continue with him/her. Parking in shade offers little protection, as the sun shifts during the day.   Make sure pets always have fresh, clean
water available.   Ensure
pets
have access to
shade and
can move out of
direct sun. When temperatures soar, leaving animals unattended in a yard
without
shade or confined in a way that they can't move into the shade is unsafe.   Remember not to leave pets outside for long periods of time without checking them. An area with plenty of shade
at 10 a.m. may be scorching by afternoon.   Don't force
your companion animal to exercise after a meal in hot,
humid weather. Do it in the
cool of the
early morning or evening.   A dog's paws can be burned by hot pavement. Be careful not to make them stand on hot pavement for long periods of time, and keep walks to a minimum on hot
asphalt. Advanced heat stroke victims will collapse and
become unconscious. The gums will appear pale and dry. If
heat stroke is suspected and you can take the animal's temperature
rectally, any
temperature above
106 degrees is dangerous. The longer the temperature
remains at or above 106 degrees the
more serious the
situation. If you return to your car
or the area in which the animal was confined and find your pet seems to be highly agitated, wide-eyed and panting uncontrollably... start for the nearest animal hospital right away with
the air conditioning at
full blast. Otherwise get the dog to
a cool area and begin the treatment
for heat stroke.
TREATMENT FOR HEAT STROKE Take
the pet's
temperature rectally if possible. A body temperature
of about 105 degrees or higher
is probable evidence for heat stroke.
Place your pet in a tub of
cool running
water or spray with a hose being sure
the cool water contacts the skin
and
doesn't simply run off the coat.
Thoroughly
wet the belly
and inside
the legs. Run the cool
water over the tongue and mouth. Take a rectal temperature
if
possible to know when to stop
cooling. A safe
temperature is about 103 degrees. No
maintenance, no moving
parts Completely safe for dogs, cats and small animals. Ideal for dog houses, unheated garages and basements. Spring, steel
coil-wrapped cord helps prevent chewing. Cord
is UL approved. Durable,
sanitary, ABS plastic
construction
with
rounded corners. Use indoors or
outdoors,
in kennels, whelping areas or post surgical situations. Heating element molded into high-density durable polyethylene allowing it
to
be washed.
Internal
thermostat keeps the
temperature at a desirable 100°. The residues that are in the blood are filtered by the kidneys before going through the urethra,
that flow
into the urinary bladder, where
the residues
are stored, waiting for the
appropriate moment to be evacuated. The urine is led to the exterior by the urethra through the male dog's penis or the female dog's vulva. REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM The
reproductive system guarantees the
perpetuation of the specie.
In the male
dog, the testicles are in charge of producing the sperm;
in
the female dog, the ovaries are in charge of producing the
ovule, that after being mature
enough, once all are in place, go
through the Fallopian tube
heading
the uterus. The following signs may be seen during the
pre-labor
period, indicating the approaching whelping. 1. The
bitch becomes restless, getting up, lying down, and changing her position frequently. She may vomit from nervousness. 2. She may paw and scratch at her bedding as if she were
preparing a nest. She may tear newspaper up into
little pieces in her attempt to make a nest. 3. Lack of interest in even
the most tempting food is
usually a sure sign that whelping is approaching. 4. Rectal
temperature, taken with a rectal thermometer, will fall
below 990 twelve hours or less prior to whelping. If' you start taking the bitch's temperature twice a day after the 59th or 60th day of gestation, her temperature will begin to decrease
from a normal of 1010-1020 to
990-1000. When it finally
goes below 990, she will start giving birth within 12 hours. 5. Milk can be expressed from the nipple near or at the time of birth in those bitches having their first litter and about 4
days prior to
whelping in those bitches which have had one or more litters previously.   III. THE WHELPING PERIOD (LABOR) Most bitches will whelp alone and without assistance, needing only supervision
by
you to see that all is
going well. Even as heat dies down,
it doesn't mean
your pet can
take
it By: Kim Steele Source: Post-Tribune   The "dog days
of summer" are winding down, but that doesn't mean pet owners should lower their guard against the threat of heat stroke.   Whether
it's being
locked in a hot
car, housed in
a
sunny area of the back yard or
exercised during the heat
of the day, pets are still at risk of
becoming ill -- or even dying --
when their
body temperature gets too high.  
Local
veterinarians and
national animal protection groups are cautioning pet owners to remain vigilant.   Dr. Norm Brooker, a veterinarian at Hobart Animal Hospital, said he sees the most cases of
heat stroke when the 90-degree days pass and the temperature
slides into
the 80s. It has been used to lengthen short cycles which
cause infertility and to treat false
pregnancies.
The false pregnancy may recur when the medication is
discontinued. Because of this and
the fact that most false
pregnancies
resolve on their own, no treatment is usually given. The
most effective way to prevent these
problems in dogs who are not showing in the breed ring and
are not going to be used for breeding is by an ovariohysterectomy (spay).
Contact your veterinarian.
May see increase in clitoral size which may resolve after treatment is discontinued, vaginal discharge, mounting other dogs, aggression, change in voice, increase in oily skin and body
odor, reproductive tract
lesions, tearing, or
urinary incontinence. May
also cause liver
disease or death especially in
cats. Summary
Do NOT use in catsDo NOT use in dogs with or predisposed to liver or kidney disease Generic Name or other breeds predisposed to kidney or liver disease.Do not use in
Bedlington Terriers with liver or kidney disease.Do not use in patients with androgen-dependent cancers such as perianal adenocarcinomas (malignant tumors that occur near the
anus).Do
not use in patients Strauss knocked down barriers with his mere presence. Strauss lifted the heaviest of spirits with a grin only a
Saint Bernard can give. There will never be
monuments or plaques
dedicated to this dog.
Most
people
will never hear
his name or his
story despite the hundred's of lives he has touched. After
all, he is only a dog. Only a dog! 21) One version is written down by Joan
Chase
Brown in (also tells about why we have
tides, why
girls's legs
get cold, and why boys
warm up their
backsides in
front of a fire when they get a chance.) A VERY tellable
story. 22) Here's the
version I tell. 1) "Why Dogs Sniff Under Tails?" It's
listed as "Iroquois," but
I'm not sure of that. Energy in a Dogs Diet is necessary
if you
notice lethargic behavior in your
dog.
Changes in
diiet, natural home supllements and evaluation by a
veterinarian can help. Learn about
your options. Energy in a Dogs
Diet Dog entropion guide. Read about the entropion diagnosis and canine entropion surgery. Dog Entropion Canine Idiopathic Epilepsy
is diagnosed
after all other causes have been ruled out. Learn about
the
symptoms,
diagnosis
and treatment options for canine
epilepsy. Canine Idiopathic Epilepsy Guide to dog health eye. Read about common dog eye diseases and conditions Dog Health Eye Dog
eye infection can be due to muliple causes. Learn
about
the symptoms, diagnosis and
treatment of
canine eye infection. Dog Eye Infection Learn about the
symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of canine fleas and
allergic
reactions to fleas. The Dog Health
Guide is dedicated to helping
people care for their dog.
Canine Fleas Dog Flu guide to the symptoms, diagnosis and
treatment of this canine disease. Dog Flu Learn about causes
of giardia in
dogs. Understand the symptoms,
treatment and removal of giardia
(also knows as bever fever).
Causes of Giardia
in Dogs Every now and then a campaign is mounted to allow
"sporting clip" in the conformation ring; this is strenuously resisted by those who prefer "show coat". It would be better simply to require historical accuracy in every way.
In this postcard of "German Poodle Champion 'Rupert' from an exhibition in Madison Square Garden" Rupert is wearing an
historically-correct
Continental clip. Notes on the "New" Standard Poodle Poodles were well-enough known in 19th century North America (for example, see
Poodle Lit.
101, Alcott and MacNab). A pair of essays, "The Poodle in America Before 1929," by Flora M. Bonney, and "The Great Revival,"
(Poodles in America, vol. These organs can be the center of malformations that are also good to know, since these anatomic
anomalies sometimes explain
the reproductive problems.Dog
Genitalia: The female's reproductive organs are located
inside the abdomen. Starting from the out structures, her genital organs
are
constituted by the vulva, the
vestibule and then the vagina; the urinary orifice is located at the base of the vagina, leading to the bladder. The urine is evacuated through the vestibule: therefore, any
urinary infection can have an effect on the
female's reproductive system. The uterus is located in the prolongation of the vagina; in it we can distinguish the neck, body and
the 2 uterine
tubes at the left and right, the ovaries are located at the
ends
of these tubes.The female reproductive organs: Efficacy
against
fleas Fleas are one of the main
target pests for which selamectin is indicated. The life
cycle of the cat flea (Ctenocephalides felis felis) has
been
researched
extensively and under common environmental conditions is completed in 3-5weeks (4). Once attached to a host, newly emerged adult fleas begin feeding within a few minutes.
Fleas mate after feeding and egg production begins within
24-48 h of the first blood meal. Eggs are laid on the
host, but fall
out of the hairy coat (pellage), with
approximately 70
% being dislodged
within 8 h, and usually accumulate in areas where pets sleep or rest (4).  Hatching occurs in 1-6 days and larvae develop in
habitats where moderate temperatures and high
relative humidity occur. Immediate
treatment is necessary for all stages of heat stroke.   If a pet shows any symptoms of heat stroke, professionals advise removing it from direct heat and spraying or submersing it. Rubbing
alcohol can be placed on the paws to help dissipate
the heat, and wet towels can be placed on its head, neck,
chest, feet and abdomen. An emergency visit to the vet is called for as
the symptoms worsen.   Besides
leaving pets outside too long in
the heat without shade or water, other reasons for heat stroke include exercising animals when it's too hot and keeping them in a car when the temperatures are climbing. When
it's 85 degrees
outside, the temperature
within a car, even with the
windows slightly open, can soar to 102 degrees in 10 minutes.   "People just don't realize how quick the temperature rises in a car, especially when the sun is beating down on it," Dartz
said. I am sure there are other changes
in the cells in the tissues of these parts which allow them
to tolerate this lower temperature and still function for the animal, but the heat exchange mechanism between the arterial and venous blood in the limbs of cold adapted animals is
absolutely
essential to
their
survival. It is possible that a reverse heat exchange
takes
place in
hotter weather. In this instance, blood
going to the
feet would pick up excess heat in the
blood leaving the feet and carry it
away from the
body, thus preventing a
dangerous increase in the animal's body temperature. I doubt, however, if
this
reverse
mechanism plays as important a part in the loss of
body heat during hot weather as
the heat exchange mechanism does in the protection of
the animal in the cold. One can easily
observe
this pattern of intense activity
followed by rest periods in puppies. During the rest
phase the spleen collects red blood cells and the animal
may pant to
cool down. Behaviour and
intelligence Many dogs,
such
as
this American Water Spaniel, have had
their natural
hunting
instincts suppressed or altered to suit human needs. Many dogs can be trained to skillfully perform tasks not natural to canines,
such as in this dog agility competition. Dogs are very
social animals, but their personality and behaviour vary
with breed as well as how they are treated by
their owners and others who come in contact with them. It is not uncommon for dogs to attack humans and other animals; however,
this is usually because of lack of care or improper
upbringing by its owner.
Differences from
other canids Dogs tend to be poorer than wolves and coyotes at observational learning, being more responsive to instrumental
conditioning.
Feral dogs
show little of the complex social
structure
or dominance hierarchy present in wolf packs. For dogs,
other members of their kind are
of no help in locating food items, and are more like competitors. Feral dogs are primarily scavengers, with studies showing that unlike their wild cousins, they are poor
ungulate hunters, having little
impact on
wildlife populations where they
are sympatric. Subscribe To This Site
  Symptoms of heat stroke
in dog include: There are several steps
that need to be immediately
taken: Heat stroke in dogs can result in a breathing problem called
laryngeal edema and hyperthermia (high body temperature). Hyperthermia can result in problems such as kidney disease, bleeding, heart arrhythmia and seizures. As mentioned,
dogs cannot cool themselves on hot days
since panting
becomes less effective the hotter it
gets. This is why it is important not
to leave your
dog in the
car in the summer, even with the window
cracked open. A
good
guideline is to cool your dog or give your dog water when you feel the need for yourself. Diagnosing and Managing Medical Issues Affecting Working Dogs R.L. Gillette College of Veterinary
Medicine
Auburn
University Dog
Heat Stroke
"Dog heat
stroke requires immediate
veterinary care. Panting does not cool dogs well when the
outside temperature and body temperature are close (103F). Cool your dog on the way to the veterinarian by running the air
conditioning and applying ice packs if you have them. Example: these days, many Poodles which are successful in the breed ring do
not adhere
to the breed standard in a matter
essential to soundness: they are "too straight in front"; judges' eyes have become so acclimatized to this great fault that it has
become part of
the style they're looking for. Another
conundrum: the breed ring puts a very fine point on type. However, this is actually a mysterious and generalized concept. For example, we have no difficulty identifying a
Border Collie, even though there's a
broad variation between individuals. How
do
we know that a field-bred Labrador, slender and agile as a Whippet, is as much a pure descendant of the St. John's Newfoundland as a dog bred to the conformation standard and with
appropriate
working temperament? In
both instances we
"know" partly by
demeanour, by the way of going, as
well as by certain physical characterisics held in
common. That we "know" indicates that type can vary more
broadly than is generally
accepted, and yet hold
together as an integrated
concept. This broad interpretation of type explains how
we recognize
long-ago
Poodles--proto-Poodles--in
tapestries, woodcuts, wood
engravings,
paintings, in verbal descriptions,
and so on (see
"...Visuals" and
...Lit 101). It is probable that
(but we have not yet found the
documentation; we're commencing to delve)
Poodles--proto-Poodles--used in falconry/hawking--always
male--were
exchanged along with the birds of prey at the annual late-fall auction held at Valkenswaard ("falcons' place") in Holland during the Middle Ages and continued to be exchanged
there even after
Poodles commenced their careers as gun-dogs ca 1600. But things may not be so simple; there is a Greek version, recorded in Pausanius (C2AD), with a snake protecting a baby from a wolf at
Ophiteia (Snake Town), so
it may have been current orally in the West before the
Eastern
versions came in, and I'm not one of those who think stories only migrated from the East (or from the Celts).Anyway, there is a more general motif of a man being rendered a service by a
dumb animal friend, which he
misunderstands and
hence kills: In a Latin poem ''
(The Gnat)
attributed to Virgil, a countryman is stung by a gnat,
which
he swats before seeing the snake the gnat was
warning him about. S. B-G quotes a tale very similar to your eagle one, but with a falcon, from the Anvar-i-Suhaili (I don't know this) ; this is said to occur, with variations in Aesop
(anyone know where?), Aelian and
Apthonius.
In an Egyptian story, a (?dumb)
slave smashes a plot of herbs
which a cook has prepared, and the irate cook thrashes him within an inch of his life; when he returns exhausted from this labour
to examine the broken pot he discovers a poisonous snake
among the herbs.
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM The lungs take up the most part of
the thorax
cavity. The muscles that control the
breathing
(the diaphragm and some muscles of the body) get dilated and contracted in a spectacular way when the dog is making any effort. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM The dog's digestive system
begin in its strong jaws and its
powerful teeth.
After chewing the food, this is guided to the back part
of the mouth and from there to
the throat and the esophagus. The
walls of the canine esophagus are not
like ours,
they are thick but elastic, which
allows the dog to ingest very big
servings of meals. This can also be a sign of a phantom
pregnancy, when a female may
begin to show signs of being
pregnant even if she's not, so watch if this happens, but it usually resolves itself in a few weeks after the cycle ends. Males are great early warning detectors and can smell the change
in a female's hormones before she
fully comes
into heat. The vulva can
show some swelling, but it
is quite variable, some girls
hardly swell at all, while others swell
up like a golf ball. Tail flagging
is another sign. When a female
is ready to be
bred, she'll usually stand quite still while the male investigates her vulva, holding her own tail up and wagging it side to side to make sure he gets the scent. Blood discharge is usually
the biggest indicator, with a pinkish red colored discharge the first week, usually turning to a tannish color during the fertile
period, and changing back to a reddish color before
gradually stopping altogether.
Other
seizure
medications such
as may also be needed if diazepam is
ineffective. diazepam
Phenobarbital The
anti-arrhythmic
agent may be used to treat
certain heart rhythm disturbances (rapid ventricular
tachycardia).
The prognosis is variable. The prognosis depends on the
severity of the clinical
signs, response to treatment and secondary
complications.
Pets that
are extremely mentally depressed
or that have
active signs of hemorrhage have a
poorer prognosis.
6 Section: Veterinary Care
In-depth Treatment
of heat stroke must be
individualized and based on the severity of the condition and other factors that must be analyzed by your veterinarian. Treatments may include:Treatment In-depth If your dog
has mild heat
illness (rectal temperature of more than 102.5 F but less
than 105 F), therapy may entail
rest, increased air circulation using a fan,
fresh water to drink and careful observation. Do not let it roam; do not let it become a nuisance to others in your neighborhood. Keep it on a leash when walking so that it does not run up
to other people or dogs and
bother
them. Clean up after it or curb it
(make it go in the gutter) when
it eliminates, *especially* in public areas. Many parks,
beaches, and
lakes
are closed to dogs because of
irresponsible
owners in this regard.You are responsible for your pet's behavior ." Unless your child is old enough, at least 13 (and highly variable at that), she or he will not have the
sufficient maturity to take responsibility for
the dog. A dog
can be a good way to teach children about responsibility, but the dog is
still *your* main
responsibility. Depending on the seriousness of the situation, these are the steps an owner should take if his/her dog is suffering from heat exhaustion: 1) Move the dog out of the sun and
into the shade or into an air-conditioned building
or follow the instructions for
shading the dog,
as directed
above in "Heat Stroke." 2) Give the
dog water to drink, but do NOT allow the dog to drink copious amounts. 3)
Rinse the dog off with cool water, either in the bath tub or with a garden hose. 4) Place the dog in front of a fan while still damp. 5) Place ice bags around the dog's head and neck. You
may also apply them to the groin area for rapid blood
cooling. Symptoms
in dogs include acute arthritis, anorexia, and lethargy. There is no rash
as
is typically seen in humans. Lyme disease Borrelia
burgdorferi spirochaete Ixodes [11] is a
disease
caused by and spread by the brown dog tick, . Signs
include fever, vasculitis, and low blood counts.
Ehrlichiosis
Ehrlichia
canis Rhipicephalus sanguineous [6] * is a disease that
occurs in dogs and humans.
It is caused by and spread by ticks of the genus . Signs are similar to human disease, including anorexia, fever, and . Rocky Mountain spotted fever rickettsial Rickettsia
rickettsii
Dermacentor thrombocytopenia [12] species are a potential cause of
diarrhea
in dogs. Associated species include and . Clostridium C.
perfringens C. difficile [13] is an infectious
respiratory disease which can be caused
by one of several
viruses or by . It most commonly
occurs in
dogs in close
confinement such as kennels. Kennel
cough
Bordetella bronchiseptica [14] [] edit Fungal infections * is a disease caused by that affects both dogs and humans. Dogs are ten times more likely to be infected than humans.
The
disease
in dogs can affect the eyes, brain, lungs, skin, or bones. Blastomycosis fungal Blastomyces dermatitidis [15] * is a fungal disease caused by that affects both dogs and
humans.
23) A dog living in a village becomes absorbed chasing a
butterfly/insect and finds itself lost in the jungle, where it shouldn t be. the dog hears a lion approaching. when the lion is
close and
about to harm
the dog,
the dog says something (i don t remember what) that
causes the lion to leave. a
monkey watching
this from a tree
goes
after the lion and tells the lion (don t remember what)
how the dog tricked it. the lion tells the monkey to get on its back and they go back to the dog. There is some variation in the age at which dogs reach sexual maturity. appear to mature
faster than large ones, which
usually
cycle later. It
is not uncommon for large-breed
females to come into heat for the first time at more than 1 year of age, although 8 to 9 months is the norm. Dogs are sexually mature between 6 months and 1 year but are not
socially mature until they are about 2 years of age.
Females first cycle anywhere from 6
to 18 months of age and approximately twice a year
thereafter. The
only exception is
the African basenji, which
cycles annually, bearing one
litter a
year. Small
breeds
Reproductive
cycle The
heat cycle of the female lasts from 18 to 21 days. The first
stage is called . It begins with
mild swelling of the vulva and a bloody discharge. This
lasts for about 9 days,
although it may vary by 2 or 3 days. During
this phase the bitch may attract
males, but she is not ready to be bred and will reject
all advances. The next phase is the .
Usually the discharge decreases
and becomes lighter, almost
pink, in colour. The vulva becomes very enlarged and
soft, and the bitch will be
receptive to the male. And
the death of the cell (that state where the
traumatized
cell cannot recover from the heat
injury) occurs when time and
temperature
factors combine to terminate the
cell's integrity. The longer the cell is above the 107 degree level the
less chance
there
is for the cell to recover. The
higher the
temperature
becomes above 107 degrees the faster the cell death
occurs. In
pets confined to a space where the
ambient
(surrounding)
temperature and humidity
are
above
tolerable
levels the animal's body will
begin to acquire
heat from the environment faster
than it can
dissipate that
heat. In overheated humans we
begin to sweat, which evaporates (unless the humidity is 100 percent), and
cools the skin surface and
assists in dissipating that heat buildup. In fur covered
dogs and cats
that have very few sweat glands to begin with the only means of dissipating excess body heat is via panting. This movement of air
over the moist tongue and airway surfaces increases evaporative cooling
(again, unless the
ambient
humidity
is 100 percent).
Unfortunately, panting is a rather
inefficient means of dissipating
body heat and actually generates
some heat due to the muscle activity involved. Keep
in mind that as an animal is confined to a closed space
the expired air, which is at 100 percent
humidity and 102 degrees, will
eventually increase the ambient
humidity and temperature of the animal's space. The
genital
organs are also constituted by
the prostate, located behind the
bladder, the
penis, which is covered by skin.The
male
reproductive organs: Some anomalies are
not important:
they
provoke problems with reproduction, but out of that
period the
dog
can live a normal life. On the other hand, some
malformations cause frequent
infections that can cause
serious problems.Malformation of the
genital organs: Scientifically, we talk about hermaphrodism. Hermaphrodism is the presence of both male and female organs in the same animal. This anomaly is rare in dogs and it presents
distinct manifestations.  As you know Dog Copulation
and Mating is part of the
Reproduction of dogs and it is always an exciting and
gratifying experience to see our
female dogs have
their babies in
our homes. However, this is something that
should not be taken lightly.
Before allowing
your dog to procreate, you must think
about the
future of the puppies and ask yourself if
you
are sure you will be able to find
the
appropriate owner for all of them; remember that dogs
usually
have several
puppies.
If you and your family have made up your minds and want
your dog to have puppies, it is
your
responsibility
to ensure those puppies are born strong and healthy.
The ideal is to find a mating partner
that compensates
the defects the female dog might have. To do this, Dabbs
says "we need
to know what happens in natural settings outside the laboratoryWe have gathered data in settings ranging from bedrooms to barrooms,
among subjects who include children, adults,
unemployed
day labourers, lawyers, prisoners, politicians
and two chimpanzees." He's
ventured into
fire
departments, construction
sites,
colleges, strip clubs and sports arenas. Professor James
Dabbs Over the past decade Dabbs and his colleagues have
found
testosterone levels to influence a person's
tendency towards criminal violence,
delinquency, suicide, heroic altruism and
aggression, as well as their cognition, sexuality and sex
roles,
occupation, personality, emotions,
competitiveness, childhood behaviour, facial expressions, disturbed
relationships and more.
It's an extraordinary body of work with powerful implications. As with most of our hormones, blood levels of testosterone vary according to our stress levels, or other demands on our
bodies. As well as providing fabulous
fodder for research, this presents a dilemma for
scientists. For example, it appears a
correlation
exists between levels of aggression and testosterone.
Sapolsky asks, is
it (a) high testosterone that
elevates aggression or (b) aggression that elevates
testosterone? According to Sapolsky, the
bias of endocrinologists is towards (a), when in fact (b)
is the answer.
It's one for the
chicken
and the egg. Do our actions control
our hormones, or do our hormones control our
actions?
Livestock Guardian dog, are used to
protect livestock in the range against predators and theft.
Maremma Sheepdog
and Anatolian Shepherd Dog are typical
livestock guardians. Show and sport (competition) dogs
German Shepherd Dogs at the
Westminster
Kennel Club dog show Owners of dogs often enter them in competitions, whether show (breed conformation shows) or sports, including dog racing & dog sledding. The winners garner much
prestige and prize money. These
dogs are often bred specifically for competition, which
may not be entirely
beneficial
for the breeds due to the magnification of hereditary
defects. Dog agility is a sport in which dogs complete a timed obstacle
course. Debris, including flea feces, falling from
selamectin-treated dogs was also shown to have high
ovicidal and larvicidal activity
because of
their content
of active selamectin, further
reducing the possibility of any flea eggs or
larvae already
in the environment of completing their life cycle. Most
debris and flea eggs tend to fall from animals where they stay longer, such as favorite resting places, both indoor and outside.
Therefore, control via exposure to debris is
targeted at areas more
likely to have high
pre-adult flea
populations (13). The efficacy of
selamectin in treatment and
prevention
of was evaluated in a simulated
home environment (5). Cats were housed in carpeted rooms and
dogs were housed in accommodation
with raised,
carpeted sleeping areas. Each of the 48 cats and 44 dogs
allocated for the
experiment was infested with 100 fleas,
28 and 21 days before treatment
with selamectin in order to establish an environment of
flea infestation. Selamectin was
applicated to the animals in the
medicated groups three times at 30 days apart and
six comb counts were performed every 15 days starting from day 14 after the first treatment. By day 90 of the experiment the mean number of fleas for each dog was 366.9 in the
controls versus
0.9 in the treated (99.8 %
reduction) and for each cat, 435.7 versus 3.0 (99.3%
reduction).
The
percentage of reduction for cats
was 98.9 %
after 24 h and
for dogs 99.8 % after 36 h. Both host
species
were completely
free of fleas 48 h after
application of
selamectin (13).C. felis For egg hatch and larval
development
studies dogs and cats were housed in cages
designed for
the
collection of flea eggs. Each animal
was
experimentally
infested with
600 unfed viable adult on the day of
application of selamectin and on days 4,11,18, and 27
after the application. Flea eggs were collected 72 h after each infestation over a period of 3 h after which any remaining eggs or
fleas were removed by combing. Usually
adult fleas begin feeding a few minutes after infesting a new host, and
mating females begin to produce eggs
24-48 h
following their first blood meal. Serum biochemistry tests to check blood
glucose concentration,
assess the extent of
damage to vital organs, such as muscles, kidneys and liver, and to
evaluate the electrolyte and acid
base status. Intensity of
treatment depends upon the cause
and
severity of
the heat illness. Treatment Mildly increased temperature
(less than 105
F) may only require rest, a fan to increase air
circulation, fresh water to drink and careful observation.
Temperatures
of 105 to 107 F should be
hospitalized on intravenous fluids and other
medications. Markedly increased temperature (greater than 107 F) must be treated more aggressively. Cooling can be promoted externally by immersion in cool water, or internally by
administering a cool water
enema. Underlying aggravating
conditions, such as upper airway
obstructive
diseases, heart
disease, pulmonary disease and
dehydration may be treated with appropriate
medications, supplemental oxygen or
fluid therapy. This article is taken from the March,
1971 issue of "Northern Dog News" although it first appeared
in the January, 1971 issue of
the Newsletter of
the Samoyed
Club of Colorado. Since we left the Pacific Northwest
and moved to Florida with
our Samoyeds, I have frequently been asked how they
tolerated the heat in this
climate. The question usually produced my "five minute
lecture" on Northern Dogs in the South. Fogle, p. 269.
Pudelpointer
"From a pool of
seven poodles and just under 100 various pointers," Baron von Zedlitz, a 19th century German dog breeder, attempted to produce the
ideal versatile hunting dog. Fogle, p. 218.
Hungarian Pumi Cross
between Puli and German spitzen, first mentioned by name in 1815; small (and vocal) drover. Fogle, p. 232. The head-piece for this section is taken from Der Deutche Pudel(Munich: Der
Deutchen Pudelklubs, 1907), p. However, the large-headed, short-bodied
breeds and the toy breeds often must undergo cesarean sections in order to deliver live puppies. veterinarian Reproductive capacity Both males and females are fertile well
into their advanced age. It is
generally considered best for the
bitch to
be bred for the first time upon maturity but not before
her second or third heat cycle, depending on her age at
the first. Because small breeds mature
more quickly,
they can be bred at an earlier age than large
breeds. A bitch will have
less difficulty in conceiving
and carrying a litter if she is bred before
the age of five. , litter size generally decreases. After the age of seven, bitches are likely to have small litters and experience problems in delivering the puppies.
Veterinarians
feel that bitches generally should not
be bred after that age.
Males can be
bred as long as they are fertile, although with age the motility and
quantity of sperm decrease. As she becomes older Source: "dog." Encyclopia Britannica from Encyclopia Britannica 2007 Ultimate Reference Suite.(2007). It is thought by certain
experts that the dog's limp ears are a
result of atrophy
of the jaw muscles. The skin of
domestic
dogs tends to be thicker than
that of
wolves, with some Inuit tribes
favouring
the former for use as clothing due to its greater
resistance to
wear and tear in harsh weather. Unlike wolves, but
like coyotes, domestic dogs have
sweat glands on their paw pads. The paws of a dog are half the size of those of a wolf, and their tails tend to curl upwards, another trait not found in wolves. Sight A
Greyhound, one of many breeds of
sighthound Like most mammals, dogs are dichromats and have
colour vision
equivalent to
red-green in humans. colour
blindness
Different breeds of dogs have
different eye shapes and dimensions, and they also have different
configurations. Dogs with long
noses have a "" which runs
across the width
of the retina and
gives them a very wide field of excellent vision, while
those with short noses have an
"" — a central patch with up to
three
times the density of nerve
endings
as the — giving
them detailed
sight much more like a human's. The
number of puppies is in function
to the dog's
breed and the
female. Large breeds can have up to 13 or 14
puppies. Mediums
sized dogs
can have up to 5 puppies
per litter.How
many puppies can
a dog have in one
gestation?  It lasts from
56 to 60 days. How long does a dog
gestation last?  You can have a vet examine the dog. An
ultrasound
scan can be performed starting on day 21 and an x-ray on day 45; this is when the puppy's skeletons will be visible. Yes, when the female mates and her heat is not interrupted. It usually
ends
at the end of the cycle. Therefore, the
female can be mounted again by
another male and have puppies
from two different parents at the same time. Yes, but it
is precise to give the dog a shot during the first 10 days
after
mating. There is no method that allows us to see if the
dog is pregnant
before day 21. So
there is a chance that we are giving the
dog a shot for nothing.
Here, the peristaltic movements (small
intestine
wall's muscle
contractions) are in charge of pulling the food to the
next part of the intestine. Once it is mixed up with the enzymes that come from the liver and the pancreas, its nutrients can be assimilated by the blood flow. The water contained in food
is partially absorbed when going
through the large intestine, where a
huge quantity of bacteria are found. These
bacteria contribute to
decompose the disposal material. Finally, the remains are expelled by the body. Dog Anatomy & Dog Inner Organs The main inner organs of the dog are similar to the ones on the
human
body and they fulfill the same functions.
Those are the basic signs. Let me add
that in my
opinion, a female should never be bred
until she is
fully
grown,
usually around one and a half years for
a small breed, and perhaps as much as two and a half years old for larger breeds. That way, a mother's body will be able to focus its energy on growing healthy pups without robbing her of
the nutrition she needs for
herself. I hope that
answers everything for you, and thanks for your question!~~Kelly [] edit More Dog Breeding Questions Thank you for answering my question so fully. I do have one more add on to this
question. I am pretty sure my puppy is in season. I do not want to breed
her yet, as you said she's too young
and I have
some testing I want to have done
on her
first.
In your opinion, should I
keep her separated
from my male when not in my direct sight. Also, do you know
of any dog obstetricians close to the NW Ohio area?always
~~Debmaran Expert Reply  The first step
in
creating
a
well behaved dog is to start training
while it's still a puppy.
Younger dogs have not developed opinions of their own yet and are easier to teach. On the other hand, while older dogs take more time and patience, the ultimate results of training can be
just as good. Older dogs are not
so easily distracted. On balance, it's best to teach a dog how to behave properly right from the start: it's easier on both of you to establish good habits early than to try to correct bad
habits later.  Allow your dog to exercise and burn off its excess energy. Try to do this regularly so the dog learns to look
forward to his time with you. When you establish enjoyable activities, your dog will come to see you as the leader. Plasma that has
been frozen soon after collection
(fresh frozen plasma) may be administered to
provide clotting
factors
in cases of DIC after your pet has
been treated with heparin to prevent ongoing coagulation.
Sometimes
heparin is mixed in with the fresh frozen
plasma.
may be used
to
reduce cerebral edema if it is suspected. Mannitol The
drugs dopamine and may be used to
dilate blood vessels to the kidneys
and to increase urinary excretion
of salt and water,
respectively. These treatments are given when acute kidney
failure due to heat stroke is
suspected. furosemide is a coating
agent that can
be used to limit
gastrointestinal
bleeding. Sucralfate and
are drugs that can be used to decrease acid
secretion by the stomach
and reduce the
risk of gastrointestinal
bleeding. there were already tamed dogs; and in Denmark and
Germany some
primitive remainders have been found recently. One of
the most emotional discoveries
took place in Israel, where a young dog was
found in a grave alongside his owner. In fact, the use of
dogs as guards spread out quickly all over the world. Somewhere around the year 5000 B.C., dogs remains brought by ancient
colonists
were found in North America. At
the beginning domestic dogs had a very uniform aspect, but
then they started to perform
specific
tasks in their
communities.
Now, and for the last 150 years,
there is a tendency to produce dogs with
a determined
physical appearance to
match the ideals of a particular
breed.
There
are now, at
least, 300 different breeds around
the world. Due to this evolution some
breeds
have faded away, while
some new ones have come to the fore.Below is a list of Dog Questions with the relation Answer. We have 100s of them. When was the first dog tamed?   Evolution of the Domesticated Dog
Almost without any doubt, the wolf is the origin of all the present dog
breeds. Some
studies show the close resemblance between the
skeletons of little wolves and the first tamed dogs.
Having evolved in origin and
species and using domestication
history as a start line, we then
focus on the
dog's body analyzing in detail its
anatomic structure, its
external
aspect and its organs
before making a deep examination of
its intelligence and abilities,
dedicating a
complete section to the "dog's
language". We will describe
its living cycle from birth to old age, paying special attention to the socialization stage and its influence on the dog until the
end of their
life. The
second part is based on the meaning of
having a dog, including expert's advices [ ] that are very useful to for you, fulfill its needs, dealing with the dog, training the
dog, stating who is charge, avoiding not
getting or garden
destruction, traveling with a dog,
keeping the dog clean, properly
feeding the dog and also
making sure
the dog exercises
enough. The
third part of the site is
dedicated to preventive medicine, the
diseases and accidents, reproduction
and the differentDog Breed CHARACTERISTIC AND Care NEEDS:  Dog Health Forum & Dog Training Forum choose the most suitable dog Cedar
Dog House   Hose the dog down with cool
water - not cold. Apply an ice pack
to
the dog's head, and soaked towels or any other
form of fabric to their body. If at
all possible, get him into a tub of cool water
-- again, cool - not cold! However, in an extreme emergencey
if
cold is all there is, use it. If none of this is working,
a cool water
enema can help to cool the dog
internally. Be
careful not to induce to rapidly, or
with water cooler than a
few degrees below body temp, or you can
put
your dog into
serious shock. As your dog
is panting, his airways
are swelling,
causing him to pant harder yet again. You need to
break this cycle. Children's allergy treatment Benadryl
can be
administered by mouth from dropper. Dog Health Care
Information & Dog Breeds Millions of dog owners stand
getting good Dog Health Care
information on owning a healthy, happy, well trained dog,
as being one of biggest pleasures
life can offer them. No domestic
animal, no other pet is capable to
love its owner with such devotion, or to get adapted to his environment so perfectly. For most people, dogs are not just a pets, but a companion, a friend. This site intends to by a
complete is focused on dog care and
. Some of the Dog Breeds discussed within are categorized
as company and
working
dogs and will need . Other are also described at length along with related . We will help you choose one of several most suitable . We'll show you what dogs need and help you train them in
the most effective way by
taking advantage of its
intelligence, breed's habits and capacities. We will also offer you numerous advice based on recent investigations and researches
around the
world.guide
of
dogs
Dog Training Dog Carriers Dog Breeds Dog Health Care
Information Dog
Names Variables such as
age, social factors and other hormones were seen as
important in these studies.testosterone in a prison Take
. Comparing college students with men and women of
similar age in a "delinquent urban
subculture"
(identified as skinheads, bouncers, bartenders,
strippers), "delinquents" had higher testosterone levels than college students. (Personally, boxing the range of research subjects into a "delinquent urban subculture" sounds questionable,
but anyway...)testosterone and
'delinquency' Take . Dabbs' team examined the salivary testosterone in seven vocation groups of men, as well as an unemployed
group. They found
that actors and footy players had
higher
levels
than religious ministers. Dabbs related testosterone
to dominance and antisocial tendencies, which in turn, he suggests, effect vocational preferences in subtle ways. Other studies reveal traditional 'white collar' workers possess lower
testosterone than traditional 'blue
collar' workers.testosterone in
the workplace These results, and
the multitude of other bizarre correlations made by
Dabbs and his colleagues, appear
conclusive.
Hormones play a big part in the individual
differences and day to day changes in
our behaviour. However we
should be wary of blaming our way of
being solely on our hormones. There's definitely
more to our life equation than
our endocrine
system. This lets you select and adjust the heat intensity from off to full temperature heat quickly and easily. (sold separately below) Choose the Heater for the shape of the
dog house & Rheostat Configuration For square houses or
open
arrangements
Classic Dog
House Heater Pad
NO Built-in
Rheostat Purchase Below For square houses or open
arrangements The worst sin towards our
fellow creatures
is not to hate them, but to be
indifferent
to them. That's the essence of
inhumanity .  -George Bernard Shaw
Did You Know?Facts About
Spaying or Neutering your Pets Two unaltered cats and all
their offspring can number an astounding 420,000 in 7 years. Two unaltered dogs and their offspring can number 67,000 in 6 years.
Every day in the United States, more
than 70,000 puppies and kittens
are
born. When this number is compared to 10,000 human births each day, it is clear that there can never be enough homes for all these pets. Each year more than 12,000,000 dogs, cats, puppies
and kittens are left at animal shelters around the
country. It can cause a great deal of pain and lameness. Treatment options include medications such as , , and joint fluid modifiers such as . Other treatments include surgery, massage,
warm compresses, chiropractic, and acupuncture.
Osteoarthritis NSAIDs
corticosteroids glycosaminoglycans [33] is an
inherited disease in dogs that is
characterized by abnormal development of
the and head of the . It is more
common in large breeds. Females
experience estrous cycles biannually, during which her
body prepares for , and at the peak she will come
into estrus,
during which time she will be
mentally and physically receptive to copulation. pregnancy Dogs bear their
litters roughly 56 to 72 days
after
fertilization,
although the length of gestation can vary. We
must prohibit
the animal from doing this,
from the moment it
starts. Yes, but these are
not operated on. The anatomic
situation of the prostate in the dog is
very
complicated
and the ways to access it during a surgical procedure are
difficult. Old
dogs are
usually the victims of these
tumors. One of the 2 testicles
gets swollen and hurts. The dog walks
all hunched over and his posterior
extremities are
tense. Castration
will
be necessary in this case.Are mammary
tumors carcinogenic? What must be done in the presence of cancer? Should
mammary
tumors always be operated?  Is the flow of fluids from the vulva normal? Is it normal if a dog licks his/her genital organs? What must be done if when a dog gets excited alone
or with someone's leg? Are there prostate tumors in dogs?
Are testicular tumors frequent? 
 Yes, in this
case the
testicles
can be located
under the skin or the abdomen. In
this case, if
they suffer from cancer no one will see them. The risks
of metastasis are very high. This is why it is preferable to
remove the hidden testicles, but it is not completely necessary to castrate the animal. Yes, these are manifested by non-clear
fluids on the
penis. It will be necessary to
administer antibiotics to the
dog.  It is precise to operate
if his testicles haven't descended?
Cooling can be accomplished
externally with cool water baths, application of alcohol
to the footpads, enhanced air
circulation using a fan,
and careful
placement of ice packs over areas with large superficial blood vessels
(neck,
groin, armpit). Internal cooling methods include
intravenous administration cool
electrolyte solutions, cool water enemas, lavage of the
stomach
with cool water, or peritoneal dialysis with cool
electrolyte solutions (instillation of
cool electrolyte
solutions into the peritoneal cavity by means of a
catheter). These methods are
rarely
necessary. Underlying conditions, such as
heart
disease, respiratory disease and dehydration should
be
treated with appropriate
medications, oxygen
delivery and intravenous administration of electrolyte solutions. Fluid
therapy is often started to treat
the shock that may accompany heat stroke. Close monitoring
of your dog is
necessary to guide treatment. You and your veterinarian
will have to evaluate your dog's rectal temperature, heart rate and rhythm, respiratory rate, blood pressure, urine output, level
of consciousness, pinpoint
hemorrhages on the gums or bruising of the skin,
vomiting,
diarrhea or gastrointestinal bleeding. Krishna
and his two brethren had no desire left to live. Balaram chose to die of his own will, as befitted a god. But Krishna, who had
taken
human form, was determined to play his
part till the
end. Having made preparations for the
care of the women, the children, and the elderly, he turned his attention to the vexing question of how he could die like a mortal. Provide a warm place to put the puppies as
they are born, such as a basket with a hot water bottle or heating pad.
The puppies can
later be transferred to the whelping box when the mother dog has completed giving birth. If the puppies get too hot they will "scream" and cry, and if too cold they will whimper. Make sure
that you do not take the basket out of mother's sight, since this would upset her and interfere with the remainder of whelping. If the puppies are hungry, they will make
"angry" cries. 4. It may be
necessary,
in the long haired breeds, to comb out or
preferably cut the hair around the mammary glands and
nipples
about a week in advance. Most bitches will start to shed some hair around the nipples about 2 weeks before whelping. The underside
of the mother should be gently and thoroughly
washed and
rinsed clean before the
whelping. Healthy pups at 97F to 100F can be normal the first week and left normally. Once body temperature is taken care of you must be certain that weight gain is occurring.
WEIGH THE PUPPIES ACCURATELY and
in large litters identify
the
puppies with a marking system that
the bitch can't lick off. The Canine Diversity
Project is an attempt to acquaint breeders of domesticated dogs with the dangers of inbreeding. Site includes information on basic
concepts of genetics, inbreeding,
diversity, test
matings, DNA
tests, and other useful information for
breeders and veterinarians. The Canine Diversity
Project This site
wants samples from purebred dogs suffering from one of the following diseases: osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, lymphoma, mammary
neoplasms, mast
cell tumor,
and melanoma. The Canine Genome Sequencing Project Establishing the
optimum breeding time of the bitch. Slide presentation from a series of
on-line tutorials prepared by Auburn University College
of Veterinary Medicine. Vaginal
Cytology
Techniques
for preparing a vaginal smear, classification
of vaginal
epithelial cells and a discussion on canine vaginal cytology
from Colorado State University. Vaginal
Cytology This site currently covers
bovine, ovine, and
bubaline antelope,
with canine feline, equine porcine, and
caprine sections in development.
Visual Online Reproduction Guides An online, illustrated
book that discusses the search for
mutant genes that cause the 4,000
hereditary
disorders affecting humans.
Blazing a Genetic Trail (Human) Gene
Tests is a publicly funded
medical genetics information
resource developed for physicians, other healthcare providers, and researchers. Large-breed litters can have as many as 10 or 12 puppies, although the normal bitch can suckle
up to 8 at a time. Blind and unable to stand,
newborn puppies are helpless and spend 90
percent of their time sleeping and 10 percent
nursing. Becoming chilled
is the greatest danger facing a healthy
newborn puppy because its
immature circulatory system cannot sustain an adequate body temperature.
For this reason, newborn puppies
tend to stay close to their
mother or cuddle together for warmth.
Mothers clean, nurse, and defend
their pups until they can live on
their own, but fathers do not involve themselves in the
care
of the young. Yorkshire terrier
Gestation
and whelping The
normal gestation period is 63 days from
the time of conception. This may
vary if the bitch has been bred two or three times or if the eggs are fertilized a day or two after the mating has taken place.
Eggs remain fertile for about 48 hours. Sperm
can
live
in the
vaginal
tract for several days. In order
to determine if a bitch is pregnant, a
can manually palpate her abdomen at about 25 days after breeding. Ultrasound also can be done at that time. At about 40 days X rays
will confirm pregnancy. This new sleek
design is now more comfortable and durable than ever! The Lectro-Kennel dog house heaters are a simple, affordable way to keep your
pet comfortable. Constructed of rugged
ABS plastic with a steel
wrapped cord,
the Lectro-Kennel
can lie flat on the dog house
floor or can be attached to the wall. Heating
pads which are designed for humans can
get too hot and cause blistering and hair loss
in animals. An internal thermostat keeps the temperature of the Lectro-Kennel pad at a desirable and pet-safe 100 degrees when in use. Like snuggling with another dog. Original
Lectro-Kennelheating
pads also come
with a free
removable, washable faux-lambskin cover designed for use with the heat pad
while still allowing heat to radiate properly. The
Reptiles and Amphibians in Captivity site collects longevity and breeding information. Longevity Project Comparative Neuromuscular Laboratory, University of California - San
Diego, Case
Presentation.
In addition to specific
case presentations (many
of which have
video clips, muscle biopsy specimens,
EMGs, and other advanced
diagnostics), monthly topics include muscle biopsy
techniques and anesthetic considerations of patients with myopathies. Site contains information about hereditary neuromuscular
diseases, plus additional links and email addresses for research being conducted. Neuromuscular Case Presentations A database of genes, inherited disorders, and traits in more than 135
animal species (other than human and mouse). The database contains textual information and references, as well as links to relevant PubMed and Gene records at the NCBI. Online Mendelian
Inheritance In Animals (OMIA) Genetics
laboratory at the University of
Pennsylvania; run by Urs Giger. PennGen Protein-Losing Enteropathy (PLE), Protein-Losing Nephropathy (PLN), and renal dysplasia are conditions commonly seen in the Soft-Coated Wheaten
Terrier. North
Carolina
State University is conducting
research into this
condition and maintains this
website. Site
includes
information on clinical
presentation, pathogenesis, and
treatment of PLE and PLN, as well as screening recommendations and sample
submission information. PLN and
PLE in Wheaten
Terriers Pregnancy
Determination in the Bitch Contains
information on the collection, handling, and evaluation of semen in bulls,
stallions, and dogs. Each ailment
has a
nifty, easy to comprehend
algorithm chart to follow for treatment.  A well-stocked
first-aid kit, kept within easy reach, is a necessity in
every home. Having supplies gathered ahead of time will
help you handle an emergency at
a moment's notice. You should
keep one first-aid kit in your home and one in each car.
Also be sure to bring a
first-aid kit on family
vacations. . . You will be able to view medical information related to first aid for you and your family. You'll find topics that
will help improve emergencies
such as: anaphylactic shock, bee stings,
nosebleeds, heart attack symptoms, emergency kits, and more.  Well, maybe. The information is good, but the site is annoying - opening every link in a new (and pretty slow)
window. I didn't like it and I've found just as good info elsewhere.
[01/10/06] :
This is a wiki textbook -- feel
free to edit it,
update it, correct it, and otherwise increase its
teaching potential. To find out
more about wikis, see the . This
textbook grew out of the First Aid article at
Wikipedia. Because nearly anyone
can add/edit this text, I don't know
how much
I'd
care to trust it... A guide to dealing
with choking emergencies meant primarily as a
refresher for those who have had training. You must decide your dog's purpose in your life. Most owners feel that the
responsibility of owning a dog is enough, and the time, attention, and
expense represented by puppies
would be too much.     If you decide
to spay your dog, we recommend that you have it done before
her first
heat, to avoid an unwanted pregnancy,
which can happen very easily. Dogs come into heat at 6
months to 1 year of age. During
heat (about 3 weeks),
Mother
Nature is
very strong. Your dog won't listen to you, and she'll
constantly try to
escape from the yard, or you could find that a neighbor's dog can jump your 8 foot fence after all. It happens all the time. Outside, you'll have to be present and alert throughout those 3
weeks, and you won't want her
inside the house, either, because of the bloody vaginal
discharge that
accompanies the
first
week of her
cycle. During the second week, when she is most fertile,
she'll also be the most
interested in being bred. In the last week, if she is a late ovulator, she can still get pregnant. A dog in heat needs a
considerable investment of time
and attention. Neutering male dogs reduces the incidence of
prostrate
cancer and prostate
disorders. Spayed and neutered
pets are better, more affectionate companions. Neutered cats are less likely to spay and mark territory. Spaying a female dog or cat eliminates its heat cycle. Estrus lasts an
average of six to twelve days, often twice a year, in
dogs,
and an average of six to seven days, three or more
times a year, in
cats. Females in heat can cry
incessantly,
show nervous behavior, and attract unwanted male
animals.
(Having fought an internecine war,
the fruits had always been Pyrrhic, and the shadow
of grief had never really left them.)
Weary of the world, Yudishtra abdicated the
throne in favour of a great-nephew. Then the five
brothers and the queen Draupadi embarked on a pilgrimage,
on
what they knew was the final journey. As they ascended towards the Himalayas, a dog attached itself to the procession. The small band pressed on, but the overt fatigue and the hidden load
of their
respective sins
began to take their toll.
One by one, the queen
Draupadi, the twins Sahadev and Nakul, Arjun the archer, and mighty Bheem, all perished. Yudishtra alone, who had lived a life of almost unblemished righteousness, continued,
accompanied by the dog. Numb with grief and
loneliness, yet impelled by destiny,
Yudishtra pressed on. Suddenly, a glow of light appeared alongside, revealing Indra in his golden chariot. Indra descended from the
chariot, and invited Yudishtra
to board it,
since it would carry him straight to
heaven. Yudishtra
was reluctant at
first, insisting that his brothers
and wife must also be present. However, on Indra's insistence that he would meet them in heaven, he acquiesced. Yet, as he prepared to board with the dog, Indra laughed and
told him that there was no place in
heaven for a dog. It is a problem that happens about 2
months after heat. The
female's teats are swollen and milk comes out when they
are pressed, even though the female is not pregnant. Her behavior is that
of a mother's. She picks up toys, it spoils them and
moans. The origin of this phenomenon
is hormonal. A specific hormonal
treatment must be used.
With the extirpation of the ovaries or a hormonal injection to prevent the dog from being in heat, this problem can be prevented;
which is not dangerous for the female.What must we do if the female does
not have any milk? What is the milk
rise? How do we prevent this?
Sometimes they stay in this
awkward and uncomfortable
position for half an hour. It is not known why dogs
become "stuck" together while
copulating; the fact is that it is
not necessary for the dogs to be stuck together for
such a long time for the female dog to get pregnant since many female dogs have gotten impregnated while just a brief session of copulating with the male dog.  Towards the end of the
female's heat cycle the female begins rejecting the male
dogs. If everything has gone as
planned, the female dog should be
pregnant.The
ideal time for dogs
copulation:   190 and 282. Pudel
is an archaic German word for
"splash"
etc., now (we understand) limited to a technical
process in steel-making. Spanish Water Dog (Perro de Aguas)
Related
to the Portugese Water Dog "and perhaps
to the Poodle", a multi-purpose
medium-sized breed, "assisting in herding, hunting, and
fishing," and originating in the Middle Ages. Corded coat; various
colours. Fogle, p. 189.
Wetterhoun Water dog developed
in Holland
in the 1600s; useful keeping
dikes free of burrowing animals.
Fogle,
p. 191. NB: There is, in addition, the Lagotto (Italian
Water Dog),
recently accepted by FCI as a separate breed; also noted:
the Bolognese. Come-lately cousins Cockerpoo Cross between
American Cocker Spaniel and
Miniature Poodle, "not given to the hyperactive excesses of many American Cocker Spaniels"; lower incidence of skin problems than the American Cocker. Fogle, p. 285.
Labradoodle In 1989, Wally Conron of Kew, Australia
began crossing Labs and Standard Poodles, aiming to create a non-allergenic guide dog. Non-shedding characteristic is not yet established, but temperament is very successful.
Fogle, p. A
heat period can occur anytime from 1 week
to 8 months after treatment is stopped.  Notify your
veterinarian if any of the following occur: Your pet
develops a vaginal discharge A pink,
fleshy
mass protrudes from the vaginal opening Your pet comes into heat while taking Cheque Your pet becomes aggressive Your pet becomes lethargic or reluctant to eat MIBOLERONE (Cheque
Drops)Mibolerone is used to prevent dogs from coming into
heat, and in the treatment of
some causes of
infertility
and false
pregnancy. . . Contact your
veterinarian if your dog experiences
aggression, urinary incontinence, lethargy, lack of appetite, weight loss, vomiting, or yellow gums while taking Mibolerone. Mibolerone Cheque Drops Androgenic steroid Drops
Store at room temperature unless
otherwise
specified by the manufacturer.
Prevention of estrus, infertility, false pregnancy FDA approved for use in dogs for estrus suppression. Mibolerone is an androgenic steroid which opposes the effects of estrogen and other
hormones which
cause ovulation and subsequent
production of
progesterone. Check back often
since every week we will be adding information on
another canine disease. We try and provide home remedies
wherever possible, and never intend
for the advice
to be a
substitute for a medical professional that knows your dog's
breed and health. Whether discussing rice for diarrhea or
treating
arthritis in dogs, you'll hopefully find our approach helpful. The Dog
Health Guide also tries to focus
on specific dog symptoms such as canine
cough and then
helps you determine if the cough is due
to canine kennel
cough,
coccidiosis
dogs,
or canine parasites such
as heartworm
or
roundworm. Please write to us with your suggestions
and ideas or if you didn't
find the information you were looking
for. Our email address is
info@dog-health-guide.org. All
suggestions will be reviewed by
our editors and posted for the benefit of our
readers. Also, please send pictures of your dog. We'd
love to meet him or her. The
information in
Dog-Health-Guide.org is not intended to
replace the advice of a Veterinarian or other Pet Health
Professional. Read about
the symtpoms, diagnosis and treatment of hypoglycemia in
dogs. Canine Hypoglycemia
Hypothyroidism Canine. Learn about the symptoms,
diagnosis and treatment of dog hypothyroidism.
Hypothyroidism
Canine Irritable
Bowel Disease Dog can be treated with a
combination of medication, diet and herbal dietary
supplements.
Learn
about the
symptoms, diagnosis and treatment
of this
canine digestive disorder.
Irritable Bowel Disease Dog (Canine IDB)
Canine Kidney Failure Guide. Understand the symptoms,
diagnosis and treatment of canine
kidney disease. Canine Kidney
Failure Leptospirosis Canine. Understand the symtoms, diagnosis and
treatment
of leptospirosis. Leptospirosis
Canine Learn the basics of lyme disease dog treatment,
symptoms, prevention and more. The Dog
Health Guide provides common sense practical approaches to
understanding dog health issues.
Lyme Disease Dog If you see signs
of Dog Mange, the best diagnosis is to see if you dog
responds
to treatment.
During the second stage (the
next seven
to ten days), the female attracts male dogs and she
ovulates
causing her to want to copulate as
well. In general it is believed that
on the
nineteenth
day of the dogs heat stage, is the
most fertile day of the cycle;
however this varies from dog to
dog depending on the breed. The female
dog will make
it pretty evident when she is ready to copulate by
showing a great interest in male dogs and by lifting her tail showing her vulva and occasionally a liquid segregates from it. The
best option is
to
put the female dog on the male
dog's territory. This is done because often times a male dog will not want
to copulate in the territory of another dog. Once the
dogs start copulating it seems
almost as if the male dog is
"stuck" to the
female dog. This happens because
the dog's penis becomes enlarged when
it
is inside of the female dog's vagina and this causes them to get stuck together. See: Larousse Universel dictionary in two volumes, 1922 edition, Littrs dictionary (1878 edition), Fogle,
p. 190, and La Sauvagine, February
1995 (cover article). Bichon Frise "The Bichon is a breed
of ancient Mediterranean orgin. Its early
name, Barbichon, comes from its
oldest
ancestor,
the Barbet (i.e. Water
Spaniel)." (Sharon Pflaumer, "Light
'n Lively", Dog World, March, 1997, p. Genetic Alliance
is a coalition of more than 600 advocacy organizations
serving 25 million people affected by 1000 conditions.
The organization works to
transform leadership in the
genetics community to build
capacity in advocacy organizations and to
educate policymakers by leveraging the voices of individuals and families.
Genetic Alliance
(Human) The
Genetics Home Reference (Your
Guide to
Understanding Genetic Conditions) is the
National Library Of Medicine's web
site for consumer information about (human) genetic
conditions and the genes responsible for those
conditions. Genetics Home Reference:
(Human)
What do you know about
your family medical
history? The nervous receptors of
the skin, the muscles and the
articulations
collect the information related to the environment; for
example, if
it is hot or
cold and also the information related to the own dog as
its
position, for example and constantly
send it to the brain and the spinal cord for this information to be
processed. The
dog's
cerebral functions haven't been
completely
studied yet, even though it is known that it has learning
centers that
process all the information
obtained by the senses,
specially the
senses of smell and sight. The dogs, as well as man,
have emotional centers that provoke
chemical
reactions as an answer for the
stimulus,
which, at the same time, lead to certain types of conduct. What is not 100% known yet is if dog feels the way we do or in a
different way. THE HORMONES The
endocrine
system
contributes to
the
regulation of the corporal functions through certain glands and tissues able to produce hormones. The pituitary glands control the dog's whole hormonal system. The hormones
are
responsible
for the presence of
stress, sexual activity and
sugar levels
of
the blood,
three factors that have a clear influence on the dog's
behavior.
Other
treatments
including
neutering and behavior training are preferred due to the
potential side effects of
the medication. Progestins have also
been used to treat types of
inflammation
and immune-mediated diseases
although corticosteroids are preferred if they work. Megestrol acetate is used in cats for treatment of behavior problems. Estrus
suppression: depends on
stage of cycle when start. Consult
your
veterinarian.
Best results if start within
first 3 days
of proestrus. Treatment of false
pregnancy: given daily for
8 days. He may even start vomiting.
Eventually he
will
collapse,
seizure and
may go into a coma. If your pet exhibits any of these signs, treat it as
an emergency and call your veterinarian immediately. On the way to your veterinary hospital, you can cool your pet with wet towels, spray with cool water from a hose or by providing ice
chips for
your pet to chew (providing he is
conscious). There
is
only
one notable
difference, and it is in hunting, as domestic dogs are not used to it. Some suggest that dogs came from the golden jackal (and at first sight, this theory looks interesting.
These animals live close to where man
is, and are smaller in
size. But this
possibility is rejected due to their different conduct and shape. Another theory points out that a wild canine, now extinct, could have been the direct ancestor of the
domestic dog. There is no
strong evidence for this theory, though
it looks certain that the smaller wolves breeds, are the origin of our
dogs.
In fact, the conduct and
instinctive behavior, typical of
our domestic
dogs, can be traced back to the hierarchy of
the wolves herd.What kind of wild dog developed into the
present domestic dog?Canis
Aureus), Section: Overview Diagnostic tests are needed
to diagnose heat stroke and assess the extent of vital
organ
dysfunction, including:Diagnosis A complete medical
history and thorough physical examination, including
rectal temperature. A complete blood count (CBC or
hemogram) to assess the severity of dehydration and
cardiovascular stress. Tests of
coagulation
including: activated
coagulation
time (ACT); prothrombin time
(OSPT);
partial thromboplastin time (APTT); serum
fibrinogen concentration;
platelet count;
and fibrin degradation products (FDPs) to identify the presence of
disseminated
intravascular coagulation (DIC) a life-threatening body-wide failure of blood clotting that is often a complication of heat stroke. It's biological determinism at its best.
Controversial
stuff, that may have some writhing uncontrollably in their seats. Biological versus Social Determinism - No One's a Winner All hail the mighty testosterone? Anne
Fausto-Sterling, geneticist and author of Myths of Gender, has a problem with correlating our behaviour with a single hormonal
state. She says "it's easy to forget that our bodies have
a number of different hormonal
systems, all of which
interact with each othero attribute a
change in behaviour to a change in a single hormone, when many different hormones rise and fall simultaneously, misrepresents the actual physiological events." Dogs have lived
and
worked with humans in so many
roles that their loyalty has
earned them the unique sobriquet "man's best friend".
However, some cultures consider dogs
to be unclean.
In some parts of the world, dogs are raised as livestock to produce dog meat for human consumption. In many places, consumption of dog meat is discouraged by social convention or cultural
taboo. I think
my dog
might
be pregnant, but I'm not sure. She
has lumps
developing
underneath her nipples. Is this a sign she is going
to have puppies? ~~Rhianne
Expert Reply Hi Rhianne, Although it's
not enough to
confirm your
dog's breeding was successful, breast
development is a
common . I've always looked for this development in my own bitches around two to three weeks after the last breeding took place.
sign of dog
pregnancy For now, treat your dog as if she is pregnant, and offer her plenty of and fresh drinking water. But Rako argues "the wipeout of sexual desire that results from a critical
reduction in testosterone is
different from
the fluctuations we experience with the various ups and downs of life and relationships." Mirror, Mirror on the Wall, Who's the
Most Aggressive of Them All? Boys will be boys. You could cut a knife through the air the testosterone levels were so high. The 'roids were raging, goin' off, peaking, on a
roll, out
of control, over the topmighty big
men with
mighty big hormones, hard yacka and all that... It's not
surprising that our levels of testosterone are understood
to affect our behaviour.
Testosterone
receptors are found in our
brain, which means the hormone
interacts and binds with our neurons,
relaying to them important messages
for
action. Deborah Blum, author of , says this indicates
the
brain is "prepared
to listen to what testosterone
has to say"
and that "most
researchers
consider
this at least indirect evidence
that testosterone is
capable of
altering the
brain, and thus, influencing our
behaviour." Sex on the Brain The speed in which the blood
flows and its distribution vary according to the dog's
activity level.
Approximately 20% of the blood pumped
from the heart goes to the brain
permanently.
In periods of
intense
activity, the amount of blood pumped is increased to rise
the oxygen
proportions. The blood flow of the different parts of the body is controlled by nerves and hormones. NCBI creates public databases, conducts research in computational biology,
develops software tools for
analyzing genome data, and
disseminates biomedical information for
the better
understanding of
molecular processes affecting
human health and disease. Human Genome Resources
Advantages of Spaying and
Neutering
A Mississippi State University
publication intended to assist in the study of the
formation
of the egg and
the avian embryo. Incubation procedures show you the
effects of heat, moisture, and ventilation upon the development of the chick embryo. Avian Embryo Canine health links of interest Canine Health Foundation (AKCCHF) Cat Breed Descriptions
(Purebred Cats, Pedigreed Cats) Cat Breed Descriptions Cat Color Genetics If you breed different cockatiel mutations, what is the likely distribution of the cockatiel chicks
when they emerge from the nestbox?
Cockatiel Genetic Calculator File of information on cow, bull, and calf management. Covering topics from replacement heifers to general cow herd management. Sponsored by the Oklahoma
Cooperative Extension Service
and Oklahoma Education Television
Authority.
Cow-Calf Corner Dog
Owner's
Guide: Spay/Neuter Surgery
Comprehensive coverage of cat
genetics, both
for coat color inheritance and congenital diseases. Feline Genetics (Free Service) A Genetic Calculator for parrot mutations.
Calculates all the possible
genetic outcomes
for
any combination of breeding pair.
If the female dog has hereditary
problems such as hip dysphasia, ocular or hearing problems etc, you will need to run an extensive series of tests to detect the
problem. In these cases though, it is not recommended for your dog to reproduce as she or he can pass this on to the puppies. Make sure also to not accept a male dog that has not been
registered as being able to reproduce.   It's
best if the female dog does not copulate during her
first heat (the ideal is if she has had one
before).
Bloat - The topic of GDV
(the
canine bloat) is very real and frightening to any dog owner.
Although most dog lovers out
there are fairly educated about the
subject, I
feel that we all need a
refresher course once in a while. Canine Bloat (Gastric Dilation or GDV) is a very dangerous disorder of the canine digestive system. Unfortunately the reasons behind this
disorder seem to be somewhat puzzling and not so clear,
but we have
gathered
some information about the disorder and the symptoms that may be helpful for all dog lovers. We also touch on the subject of getting the proper medical help in case of an emergency and you
will
also
find a few suggestions that may or may not be helpful in
preventing bloat. We do follow all the suggestions provided
here since our
German Shepherd
Mundo has a very sensitive digestive system. Once again observation is the key element of course and we all must learn to read canine body language since they just cannot
express themselves verbally. (Added:
19-Oct-2003 Hits: 1125
Rating: 9.50 Votes: 6) Rate It Eye Injuries - E Y E I N J U
R I E S Last
week, in our section on Outdoor Injuries in Working & Sporting Dogs, we
discussed first aid for abrasions and
lacerations. The efficacy of 6
mg/kg dose was
evaluated in eight controlled studies with dogs and cats
against and . Groups of 8-12 dogs or cats were allocated
randomly for each study. In dogs, a 99.2% and 91.8%
efficacy was obtained against C.
felis and C. canis respectively,
at the day 30 count. Groups of 12
dogs that
received
a
single topical dose of 6 mg/kg selamectin were immersed in water 2 h post
application or bathed with shampoo at
2, 6, or 24 h post application of the drug and
before infestation
with
. The reduction of fleas on day 30 after the application of selamectin ranged from 99.7% to 100%. Similar experiments with C. felis on cats showed 98.8% of reduction for
unbathed cats, and
97.1 % to 99.4 % for bathed cats
immersed in water after
application
of selamectin (12).C. Do NOT cover your dog, even
with a cold
towel. A towel will prevent the heat from
escaping. A cold washcloth on
the tummy is fine.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:   *Walk your dog in the early morning or evening when it is cooler.   *Provide constant access to fresh water.   *If possible, keep your dog indoors in a cool, well ventilated or
air-conditioned part of the
house.   *Air conditioning is one of the best ways to keep a dog cool, but is not always dependable. To provide a cooler environment, freeze water in soda bottles, then wrap them in a
towel or
tube sock. Place them on the floor for the dog to
lie on. You may also place ice and a
small amount of water in several
resealable food storage bags, cover them with a towel, and place them on
the floor for your dog to lie on.   *If you do not have
air-conditioning, place a wet towel on the floor, (or
use ice bags as explained
above), or purchase a cooling pad for your dog to lie on.
This system processes food so that it
can be used by the body. Chemical
reactions
occur in each
body cell. Some chemical
reactions synthesize new enzymes, cell
structures,
bone, and other components of the body. Other
chemical reactions release energy needed for the
building processes. The foods we eat are usually too
large to pass through the
membranes of the
body's cells.
The organs of the gastrointestinal system break down food
molecules for use by the
cells of the
body
and
eliminate the waste products the body cannot use. 189, identifies this as a 19th century breed, doubtless because developed by
Justin
McCarthy in the
mid-19th century from the South Country Water Spaniel (or
Shannon, or Rat Tail Spaniel)
probably crossed
with
the Barbet, or "French Poodle"; perhaps with the PWD
(Jeff Griffin,
Hunting Dogs of America(NY: Doubleday, 1964), p. 144-5). We've slotted this breed with "the cousins" because of its purely water spaniel origins. Komondor Origin in antiquity;
job is to guard livestock; first mentioned by name
in 1544; largest of the Hungarian
herdsmen's dogs; supposed to have come
into Europe with the
Magyars
(9th century). Fogle, p.
232. Lchen In existence at least from the 15th century in Germany and the
Low Countries, as art history gives evidence. We've
indiscriminately
included images of these "little lions" in "Gordon's
Poodle Visuals"
on the theory that they
may be--in fact almost certainly are--Lchen, and if so,
someone may
someday enjoy claiming these
references,
but if we don't include 'em the
opportunity
will be lost! See "The Lionhearted Lchen," by Kim Campbell Thornton, AKC Gazette, January 1999, pp. 50-4. Pastore Bergamasco The
"Silver Pastori, shepherd of the
Alps",
herder, companion, protector, a
"unique and
ancient
sheepdog", looks
very like
a blond Puli; how this breed varies
from the Komondor and the Perro de
Aguas,
which also look a
bit like blond
Pulik is unknown to the editor of the
Poodle History Project. Besides the boy dogs being interested, the blood, and the swelling of the vulva, how can you tell when a female dog is in heat? Also, how early can a female go into
heat
and does it
happen every six months or does
it
vary?
~~Debmaran Expert Reply Hi Deb, Let me start with your second question. In general, this is not a terribly efficient method, though
it is adequate in the case of the
automobile. In the case of man, the radiator, for all
practical purposes, is his
exposed skin. In
order to enhance the loss of
heat, man uses the simple principle of evaporation. In general, the amount
of
heat
loss by the
evaporation of a certain volume of water from the skin
is some five-hundred and forty times greater than the raising of the same amount of water one degree in temperature. This principle of evaporation is very important in many cooling systems
and particularly in the
cooling of the body. If, however, the
major problem ceases to be that of getting rid of excess heat, but rather maintaining what heat is produced in the chemical reactions in the body, one has to look to different
techniques. In general, this only
becomes necessary if an animal is forced to
live
in a climate
where the temperature is
much, much
lower than body
temperature.
This, of course, is the case of the
Northern dog. The best way to conserve heat is the well-known method of insulation. Wring the cloth out just enough to keep it from dripping, and soak down the fur of the
head, inside the ears, above and under the neck, on the tummy
and groin, and on the tops and bottoms of
the feet.   *Keep pets with
breathing
problems indoors.   *Wetting down
your
dog with cool water or
allowing
him/her to swim can also help
maintain a
normal body
temperature.HOW TO CARE FOR YOUR DOG IN HOT WEATHER *Avoid taking your dog
in
the car with you. If you are accustomed to letting your dog accompany you in the car, do not feel guilty about leaving your pet behind on hot summer days. Your dog will be
much happier and safer at home with shade and plenty of
fresh cool water. No one should
EVER leave a pet
in a
vehicle
- no matter how briefly they intend to be
away. Temperatures inside a
parked car can rapidly reach dangerous levels, even on relatively mild days, and even if the car is parked in the shade with the windows slightly open. Dark-colored cars
especially can become very hot
inside - even on days that do
not seem too hot to take your dog along. In just minutes, the temperature inside a parked car can climb to well over 120 degrees or more. (Purchase separately below)
Lectro-Kennel cover (included) adds
comfort. Limited one-year
manufacturer warranty.
Cover is made from fleece-like
material, preshrunk and
washable. Cover is
breathable, won't warp pad.
Note: For use in confined space, order
a size
which is approximately half
the space size so that your pet an opportunity to get off of the heated surface if it desires. RHEOSTAT CONTROL UNIT (EK&TB) Provides a convenient and reliable fingertip
selection
on the exact warmth your pet needs in any environment or climate. While many females will hold to a fairly steady schedule of coming into season about every six months, it
really can vary. Some girls will only come in once year,
while others may even come in
every four months, but often these "extra" seasons are not
always fertile. Once a female has
her first season, you need to track subsequent seasons to
find out what her
natural
pattern
will be. That said, let's talk about signs a female
is in season. In
my experience,
a female will usually: Show a change in mood shortly before her season commences, acting a bit touchy.  rmine the exact date, unless mating was provoked. On the day of labor the female
seems anxious, breathless
and wants to hide. It is precise to leave
the dog alone, after preparing a box with covers. From the
first puppy until the last one an interval of about 36
hours
must pass. Only an x-ray will allow us to know if there are any remaining fetuses. Call the vet, but DO NOT pull the puppy out. It is preferable, since some females can hurt the puppies if
they
pull the cord too hard. Breed Type Here's a short definition
of breed type: "that collection of specific characteristics which, when
taken together,
separate one breed from another" (Patrick
Ormos, "The
Importance of
Breed
Type", American Kennel Club
Gazette,
December 1991, p. 72). For
example: Breed type enables us to tell the difference
between the Poodle, the Barbet, the
Portugese Water Dog and the
Puli.
Closely allied with breed type is
the concept of
style.
Here's a short
definition of breed style: "the
specific
way in which the defining
characteristics of breed type are expressed" (ibid). Ormos advises: "Breed type should be a priority for every breeder. Consistent style should be our goal." Ideally, excellent
conformation provides a platform for excellent performance, and the sum total is soundness. When type and breed-appropriate temperament are also present, an ideal is
fulfilled: for example, "Am., Bda., Can., Dom., Mex. and
F.C.I. Int. Ch. Stormy Lane
to Sir with
Love, Am., Bda., and Can. UD, Mex. PC, Best in Show and High Score in Trial winner both on the same day," (Poodles in America, vol.
V, Poodle
Club of America, 1980, p. If he does
not
wish to
lose heat when it is cold out, he will breathe in and out through his nose and keep his mouth closed. The provides a quite sensitive means of temperature control, particularly in the case
of the animal who has
other
means of
protecting himself from the cold and from
the outside temperature as do the
long-haired Northern breeds. The
animal, therefore, in general has
developed enough capacity of heat loss through his panting mechanism to compensate for the very wide swings in temperature. In the
case of man, the removal of
clothing during hot weather increases the ability to lose
heat by
evaporation
of moisture. The dog does not have this ability and
therefore his insulation is a protection to him during
hot weather. If the animal loses his insulation during
very hot weather, by having his coat clipped for instance, he runs the risk of not being able to maintain his body temperature. His skin temperature loss probably is not only inefficient
but, since he does not prespire, he will probably increase the temperature of his skin and his body temperature as well. Anything that would interfere with a dog's ability to pant
efficiently can also be a great danger to
him in hot
weather. In order to be sure that the breeding is taking place at the
optimum time,
vaginal smears and blood tests can be
done by a veterinarian beginning before estrus and
through the estral phase.proestrusestrus Yorkshire Terrier At about the 14th day, or whenever estrus ends, the final, or luteal, stage of the cycle begins; this stage is called . The
discharge becomes redder, the vulva returns to its normal
size, and the bitch will no longer
accept the male for mating. When
all signs of discharge and swelling are
absent, the heat is complete.
The diestrus stage lasts 60 to 90 days (if no pregnancy has occurred) or
until the bitch
gives birth. She then enters , which is the
time
frame between the end of the last
cycle and the
beginning of the next proestrus. This phase comes
after the new heat; it has different lengths, having in mind
that the dog is in heat two times
a year.The Anestro: The male does not
have a precise cycle; it is in
heat when the female is present. In
the male dog
that has
matured recently, the sperms are
not numerous and can
sometimes present anomalies. Their
fertility is not at its maximum
and it is better to wait until it
is about 10 or 15 months old before its
first intercourse. During these
cycles, many hormones are secreted. We will not revise
all of these molecules, but it is precise to know the most important hormones to understand the regulation of the cycle and its disfunction.The Male: