The Arabs called it or due to its
antiquity.    The changing
climate has led to since antiquity, when the region was very fertile. The city's long history and former importance are recognized by the native population, who speak of it as the and the birth place of at Balkh and also believed by that he's buried there. Carlton-Smith’s remarks were clearly taken out of context. The war against an
irregular opponent like the Taliban, or any guerrilla
movement, cannot be won in the traditional military sense.
In asymmetric warfare, you are fighting an elusive enemy with a low tactical signature, no infrastructure, no industrial base, no seat of government and no command and control facilities. He wrested from the Moghuls their territories west of the Indus.In 1756 he occupied Delhi and carried off as much wealth as possible, thereby enriching his treasury. By 1761, his kingdom was larger than present Afghanistan. He led a contingent of his tribesmen in the service of Nadir Shah, king of
Persia, who won control of most of Afghanistan and part of India. National Museum of Asian Art Guimet Ranging in date from 2200 BC to AD 200, the objects present a rich mosaic of Afghanistan's cultural heritage and are drawn from four archaeological sites. The works include gold bowls with artistic links to
Mesopotamia from Tepe Fullol in northern Afghanistan; bronze and stone sculptures from the site of the former Greek city of Aï Khanum; bronzes, ivories, and painted glassware imported from Roman and Indian markets discovered in Begram; and more than 100 gold ornaments from among the 20,000 pieces known as the "Bactrian Hoard," found in
1978 in Tillya Tepe, the site of
six nomad graves. This upset the delicate balance of Durrani tribal politics that had been established by Ahmad Shah and may have prompted Painda Khan and other Durrani chiefs to plot against the shah. Although it is uncertain whether such a plot existed or not, Zeman moved against the tribal leaders, executing Painda Khan and the chiefs of two other Durrani clans (the Nurzai and the Alizai), as well as the chief of the Qizilbash. It is a fact that for as long as history remembers, human
societies in their long historical evolution have used
councils and meetings to decide on
issues that directly impacted their lives within their families, villages, tribes and regions. Even prehistoric man used councils in deciding how to deal with the wild that threatened his life or how to deal with natural calamities or even hostile neighboring tribes. Even before the Soviet invasion at the end of 1979,
there was a substantial presence of Soviet advisors in the city with their families. From 10 to the army in Herat under the control of mutinied and some 35 Soviet citizens were killed. The Afghan air force bombed the city, causing massive destruction and some 10,000 deaths and it was recaptured with tanks and paratroopers. soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of the
remaining forests are being cut down
for fuel and building materials); desertificationEnvironment - current
issues: Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban Biodiversity, Climate Change, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life ConservationEnvironment - international agreements: party to: signed, but not ratified:  We think its one title, Ta Ta Cha Cha, that most easily expresses the dance of life in her poetry.  53.Dove's Tale
edu/~rfd4b/ Similarly, we would say
that you should take a look at the very talented actors Robert Downey, Jr. and Australias Russell Crowe, who have stretched their talents and personalities, now taking to the trail as singers, often of their own compositions. Unlike the exclusively academic British society of the same name, its objective "is to
popularise the study of philosophy. The society proposes to enroll both professional philosophers and amateurs, academics and non-academics and women and men from different walks of life who share an interest in philosophy." The Aristotelian Society is based at B
Block, Lalmatia, Dhaka. British invasion of Afghanistan
results in premature defeat Anglo Afghan War 1   UK invades again and results are similar Anglo Afghan War 2   Amanullah Khan Declares independence Independence Day   Pressure by ousted Prince Daud opens the door to democratic reform Constitutional Monarchy   Monarchy abolished and Republic of Afghanistan is born Republic of Afghanistan 1973   A feud ensued, with the Taliban becoming involved after both men reported each other to the authorities for alleged wrongdoings ranging from running a brothel to misappropriating religious objects. Israel United States [5] January 26 2005 [6] Martin Fletcher
[7] Simintov says it is not easy to
practise his religion alone. wounded by opposition to the Vietnam War, however, America resorted to conducting covert operations in Latin America. During the administration of President James E. Carter, communist backed Sandinistas overthrew Nicaragua's government. President Ronald Reagan later
provided financial and material support to anti-Sandinista rebels. Reagan also backed anti-communist forces in El Salvador, even though Congress did not always agree with the White House on the issue of Nicaragua and El Salvador. There is an amiable
atmosphere around the rooms, which are equipped with the
latest accessories so as to enable the guests to stay in complete comfort. Each room is fitted with satellite television, telephone with direct dialing facility, mini bar, and a properly accessorized attached bath. Kabul Serena Hotel Rooms and Suites of Kabul Serena Hotel In the north, became independent, and the south was acquired by
the dynasty. Bactria expanded southward but fell (mid-2d cent. ) to the Parthians and rebellious tribes (notably the Saka). Buddhism was introduced from the east by the Yüechi, who founded the Kushan dynasty (early 2d cent. ). Their capital was . The Kushans
declined (3d cent. ) and were supplanted by the , the Ephthalites, and the Turkish Tu-Kuie.B.C. Napoleon Buonaparte appears in Corsica as a major figure opposed to Corsican joining with Great Britain. He leads this resistance
for some time before the British exterminate it, forcing him to flee to mainland France. 1803 The efforts of the Emperor Jian-Guang to undo the changes which he predecessors Shang-Kun and Xiu-Fang put into place lead to great economic and social disruption in China.     (1) The President is the head of state of the
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan,
and conducts his authorities in executive, legislative, and judiciary branches in accordance with the
provisions of this Constitution. (2) The President shall
have two Vice Presidents, one first and one second. (3) The candidate to the Presidency on his or her
candidacy shall declare the name of
the Vice Presidents to the nation. The audience was so moved by the play that the first three performances were followed by shouting and public demonstrations, causing Sultan Abdul Aziz to close the play, ban Kemal's newspaper, and deport him to Cyprus for three years. There he wrote his
most famous play about the sacrifice of a Turkish marine officer. The demands by Pashtuns that Panjshiri power should be reduced exacerbated relations in particular between Fahim and Qanooni. Indeed Qanooni eventually organized the Afghan opposition party and anti-Karzai alliance— (New
Afghanistan Party), while Massoud
(in association with Fahim) formed (Afghanistan National Movement Party). Karzai seemed to be caught in the middle of this politicking amongst the Panjshiri clique.Loya Jirga 19 Shura-e NezarHizb-e Afghanistan-e NawinHezb-e Nohzat-e Melli-ye Afghanistan Even if the
armed forces of the superpowers rarely confronted each other, they still saw plenty of action. The Red Army suppressed dissent in East Germany (1953), Hungary (1956), and Czechoslovakia (1968). It also fought a border war with China (1969) and invaded Afghanistan (1979). U.S. forces intervened in Korea (1950), Lebanon (1958, 1982), Vietnam (1961), the Dominican Republic (1965), Cambodia (1970), and Grenada (1983). Her tomb complex is considered one of the great monuments of Timurid architectural carving. Timur Shah Rukh Timurid Empire Musalla complex minarets Queen Gawharshad The at one point
established their capital in Herat
during the fifteenth century, and in 1506 it was captured by the and a few years later was taken back by , to become part of a new . And the Taliban newspaper, the Kabul Times, recently reported that the mine and industries minister, Mullah Mohammed Isa Akhond, met representatives of the Central
Asia-based US company, Central Asia Oil and Gas
Industry. The newspaper quoted
company representative, Rafiq Yadgar as saying: "Central Asia Oil and Gas Industry is ready to invest in Afghanistan in the field of oil and gas extraction and meanwhile is willing to build an gas and oil refinery in Afghanistan."