Flushing Council recently received Cultural After School Adventures (CASA) grants to provide cultural programming for students enrolled in after school programs. The funding for this program is provided by the New York City Council in partnership with the Department of Cultural Affairs and the Department for Youth and Community Development.  It gives an opportunity for non-profit organizations and DYCD Out-of-School-Time (OST) providers to offer cultural experiences to our City's youth. Educational Partners Digital Arts Partnership with JHS 189 Queens commuters should be thrilled
over the results of the report card. The No. 7 train came in second; only to be outdone by the L train. According to the report, the No. 7 line performed above average on four measures: frequency of scheduled service, regularity of service, delays caused by mechanical breakdowns and chance of getting a seat during rush hour. The line did not get a higher rating because it performed below average on its percentage of dirty cars and adequate announcements. Another plus for the Flushing No. 7 train is that it tied with the No. 6 line in having the most scheduled service, with two-and-a-half minute intervals between trains during the morning rush hour. Overall, the report found a weak showing for subway service throughout the city. Tracing the
City's water
supply system from the outermost, upstream tributaries of the Delaware River to sea level at the
Nassau
County line, the watershed model identified the
various aqueducts,
water shafts and drainage basins that feed the City's water supply. qmaDue to space limitations within the New York City Pavilion, the model was never exhibited in its entirety. After nearly 70 years in
storage, the 27 completed panels were in desperate need of conservation. For $20.07, our restaurants can
offer two or three dinners and more." Peter Koo, Flushing BID Program Services chair, stated: "Flushing is a Destination of Choice for new immigrants, and an opportunity for fellow New Yorkers to try our restaurants." Michael Navarro, executive chef at the Sheraton LaGuardia East Hotel Deluge Restaurant, stated: "We [are]
especially
looking forward to welcoming people to experience globally inspired dishes at Deluge." In introducing the plan, the legislators cited improvements in business and sanitary standards and a 20 percent decline in hospitalizations for food-borne illnesses in
Los Angeles since the city began posting sanitary grades in food service establishments. The new approach will steer the city toward the Food and Drug Administration’s recommendation of at least three
complete inspections
of full service
restaurants each year, according to Klein and Bloomberg. Currently, most city restaurants are inspected on an annual basis. Frieden said in a statement that the initiative “will help consumers make more informed choices about where to eat, while increasing restaurant operators’ motivation to stay clean.” He added, “New York City will have safer restaurants and fewer cases of food poisoning.” Photo courtesy State Senator Klein’s office The weekly outdoor festivities feature dance performances by participants in the QMA/TOPAZ Arts Dance in Queens Residency Program, and continue
with a live concert and
film screening from one of the many countries that fuel Queenscultural & artistic vitality.
Complementary
shorts films will precede each feature film and are co-presented with Arts Engine's Media That Matters Film Festival. West Africa, Brazil, Morocco, China, Ecuador, India, and Mexico are on your all-inclusive summer itinerary. Dance and Music programs begin at 6:30 pm followed by the Film program at 8 pm each Friday. Now it's become a championship involving $17-million for more than 600 men and women professional players. In the
earlier days, there were 2 separate tournaments; one for the men and the other for the women. The first one was men's tournament that was held in 1881 at the Newport Casino and Newport, Rhode Island. At that point of time, they were known as U.S. National Singles Championship for men and were open for only the United States National Lawn Tennis Association's members. After that, in 1900
the first U.S. The "Book of Record," printed in 1938 on permanent paper with special ink, describes the
latitude and longitude of the capsule's burying place. Some 3,000 copies of the "Book of Record" are stored in libraries, museums and monasteries throughout the world. In the days leading up to the 1939 World's Fair, Westinghouse Corporation took on a project. The company began
developing a time capsule--one that would be retrieved 50 centuries after being buried. The town of Vlissingen on Long Island was named after a town in the Netherlands. It would become much better known, however, by the corrupted English form of the name: Flushing. Today it may summon images of serves and volleys-the National Tennis Center is at Flushing Meadow. But
Flushing's true
contribution to history came over a confrontation in the late
1650s and early 1660s. The Dutch had allowed a group of English religious dissidents from New England to settle the town, and among its
early residents was a population of Quakers. Under the West India Company rules for New Netherland, there was an official state religion—the Dutch Reformed faith—and while "freedom of conscience" was allowed to residents under the Dutch constitutional document, only Dutch Reformed congregations were permitted. The contents were divided into five basic areas: , , , an , . And what was inside? Some things as common as fountain pens and a set of alphabet blocks -- about 35 small, everyday articles in all. The capsule also contained 75 representative fabrics, metals, plastics and seeds. Contemporary art, literature and news events collected on microfilm also secured a spot in the capsule. small articles of common use textiles and materials miscellaneous items essay in microfilm newsreel Now, Steven has a permanent home with a loving parent. “I believe in giving children the love that they need and the family that they need,” said Keith. “Now he has somebody and I have somebody, so together we are a family.” “Matching parties” are only one way that Heart Gallery NYC works to find
permanent homes for some of the city’s hardest-to-place foster children. Since its inaugural launch last July 15 children from the first photo exhibit of 50 have been matched with adoptive families and others have been paired with mentors from the Heart Gallery NYC’s new mentor program run in association with Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City. Search :  Archives The Queens Economic Development Corporation, the Destination Flushing Cuisine Association, the Flushing Business Improvement District, and participating restaurants have announced that 2007 "Discover Queens Restaurant Week" will take place from September 17 to 20 and September 24 to 27. City Councilmember John C. Liu stated: "Each year, Discover Queens Restaurant Week just gets bigger and better, with ever expanding diversity in cuisines and in local participation. I encourage everyone to come and sample the great foods that make Flushing a Destination of Choice." The Queens No. 7 train made the honor roll this
year on the 2008 State of the Subway Report Card. According to New York Public Interest Research Group’s Straphangers Campaign, the No. 7 train ranks second best of the 21 subway lines rated by the Straphangers Campaign. They gave the No. 7 line a $1.30 out of $2.00 in the “MetroCard Rating.” The actual rankings are based on data collected from MTA New York City Transit, and compiled by a system from the Straphangers Group. Their report card has three separate parts that include a comparison of service on 22 lines, detailed in four tables, an overall “MetroCard Rating” to 21 lines, and finally a one-page profile on each of the 22 lines. It mounts eight exhibitions a year primarily of photography. Techniques and subject matter embraced by the
artists runs the gamut and includes landscapes, pinhole computer images and photographic wall sculpture. Focal Point Press publishes an annual catalogue of the exhibitions called Viewfinder. Forbes Galleries Manhattan A living testament to the gamut of Malcolm Forbes' aesthetic interests, the galleries display art work from his personal collection as well as the
collection of the magazine. Franklin Furnace Archive Brooklyn Formerly an exhibition space for installations and performance art, the Franklin Furnace Archive now houses a collection of avant-garde art of the past and present. "Discover Queens Restaurant Week" is co-sponsored by the Destination Flushing Cuisine Association,
the Flushing
Business
Improvement District (BID), Borough
President Helen
Marshall,
the Queens Economic Development Corporation (QEDC), the New York Mets organization and others. Participating restaurants will offer a special prix fixe menu for $20.07 during this promotional event. Assemblymember Ellen Young said: "Those who have not yet discovered the multicultural cuisines of the most diverse county in the country should take full advantage of this
tasty opportunity.
These are the
centerpiece of a major exhibit running through May at the Museum. Check out the awesome website the museum created just for this event! http://www.thereallybigmap.com/exhibit/intro.html NYWF64.Com-Created by Bill Young, co-author of "Images of America, the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair", this amazing site is the definitive source on the web for anything related to the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair. A Must-see for any fair enthusiast! In time for its 70th anniversary,
the model
has been restored to
its original brilliance and returns to its intended home in the New York City Building where it
will remain on
long-term loan. In celebration, the QMA and DEP will commemorate this momentous homecoming with an exhibition featuring the model, historic documentation, and contemporary photographs of the New York City watershed. Schedule Permanent event long term exhibition Fee The following ice-skating rinks in parks throughout the city offer a safe way to celebrate the cold weather: Wollman Rink and Lasker Rink in Central Park, Abe Stark on Coney Island, Kate Wollman Rink in Prospect Park, City Building in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, and War Memorial on Staten Island. As soon as the ice is strong enough, Parks & Recreation will designate safe-skating areas in large spray shower basins and other shallow water spots throughout the five boroughs. Signs
will be clearly posted to show that these areas are safe for winter sports. The Society puchased the house from the last family occupants, the Parsons sisters, and has operated it as a museum since 1947. The Museum's exceptional collections illustrate the social history of the Bowne and Parsons families from the 17th through the 20th
centuries. Most of the approximately 5,000 objects in our possession are original to the house and belonged to the family. Included are fine examples of English and American furniture, decorative arts, textiles, costumes, household artifacts, rae books and manuscripts, paintings and toys. Correspondence in the collection demonstrates the influence of political, social and economic events of the day on the house's residents, including their civic activities. The collections are a renowned resource for scholars of American history and decorative arts. They’re often green with envy because they’re aware of the new technologies but haven’t had a chance to use them yet in a building.” Stefan said that in the past two weeks, architects from Philadelphia, Ohio, and Germany had visited the Garden and that representatives from the Mets
came by to look at the planted green roof. QBG Board Member Emily Lin, who is a principal at Lin & Associates, an architectural firm in Kew Gardens, welcomed the visitors and chatted in Chinese. She was delighted that the visitors were from Shangdon, the same province where her mother was born. Shangdong, in eastern China, is that country’s second most populous province with 92 million people.  Asked what they planned to do after the tour, Edward Stand said, “We’ll go to lunch. This event is open to the public.The Roaring 20’s Night In The Park, Unisphere, Inc., is a not-for-profit public-private partnership established to support programs of and enhancements to Flushing Meadows Corona Park. The event is an integral part of its effort to provide meaningful endowments important to current and future generations of park users. The structure that became the Bowne House was built around 1661, and was expanded by John Bowne in 1669 and 1680, as his family grew and prospered. The
present footprint of the house was completed in 1695. Based on a Dutch plan but employing English building techniques, the house represents a blend of the two main architectural traditions of colonial New York. The last alterations were made in the 19th century. The Bowne House is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is
designated a New York City landmark. The Flushing BID and Destination Flushing Cuisine Association will also offer a "Passport to Flushing" that will provide participating customers with a 10 percent discount, free drink or other promotional offer and other incentives to invite customers to come back. Peter Tu, Destination Flushing Cuisine Association secretary general, stated: "In Flushing, we are proud of the quality and uniqueness of our cuisines." Mabel Law, Flushing BID executive director, stated: "We're very excited to offer returning and new customers the Passport to Flushing, and we hope that everyone will enjoy the Flushing experience and taste the fine cuisine, visit our cultural sites and shop our retail businesses." is the premier Spanish-language media company in the United States.  Its operations include Univision Network, the most-watched Spanish-language broadcast television network in the U.S. reaching 98% of U.S. Hispanic
Households; TeleFutura Network, a general-interest Spanish-language broadcast television network, which was launched in 2002 and now reaches 86% of U.S. Hispanic Households; Galavisi, the country leading Spanish-language cable network; Univision Television Group, which owns and operates 62 television stations in major U.S. Hispanic markets and Puerto Rico; Univision Radio, the leading
Spanish-language radio group which owns and/or operates 69 radio stations in 16 of the top 25 U.S. Hispanic markets and 4 stations in Puerto Rico; Univision Music Group, which includes Univision Records, Fonovisa Records, La Calle Records and a 50% interest in Mexico-based Disa Records labels as well as Fonomusic and America Musical Publishing companies; and Univision Online, the premier Spanish-language Internet destination in the U.S. Scott Fitzgerald in "The Great Gatsby" has become Queens' largest park, and one of New York City's flagship parks. The site which is now Flushing Meadows-Corona Park is historically important not just to New York, but to the entire country. In the 1930s, in the period's largest reclamation project in the United
States, Robert Moses converted the swampy area into a 1,200-acre fairground for the 1939 World's Fair. The fairground-turned-park hosted its second World's Fair in 1964. The structures that remained from the two fairs became the foundation for the growing park, and the Unisphere--left from the 1964 Fair
and recently designated as a city landmark--has become the park's well-known symbol. For the five-year span between 1946 and 1950, the first United Nations assembled within the park. You'll get invited to our Meetups as soon as they're scheduled! Name: Maybe it's timefor a little less face-to-screenand a little more face-to-face. What's a Meetup Group? Meetup Groups are today's support
groups, parent playgroups, citizen groups, fitness groups, book clubs, professional groups, and other powerful local groups! The New York City Chess Meetup GroupEric is a member of Member of this Meetup Group since November 4, 2006 None yet. Introduction I've played chess all my life, but have not had partners for a while. Love to get back into it. "City of Tomorrow"
Welcome to nywf64.com
where we're dedicated to bringing the New York World's Fair experience to the Web. Join this all new site in a celebration of this great 60's Space Age exposition. Who can forget this expo, headed by Robert Moses, held in the sixties in Flushing Meadow Park in Queens New York? Do you remember your first site of Unisphere? LIU Galleries 1 University Plaza, Brooklyn, (718) 488-1051 Rotunda 33 Clinton St., Brooklyn, (718) 875-4047 Schafler 200 Willoughby Ave., Brooklyn, (718)636-3517 Taeg Nishimoto 33 Clinton St., Brooklyn, (718) 875-4047 Gallery of Artists72 Holland Ave., Staten Island, (718) 447-6675 Newhouse Cntr for Contemporary Art 1000 Richmond Terr., SI, (718) 448-2500 Queens Museum of Art Flushing Meadows Corona Park, (718)592-9700 Jamaica Arts Center 161-04 Jamaica Ave., Jamaica,
(718)658-7400 Godwin-Ternbach Museum 65-30 Kissena Blvd., Flushing, (718)997-4747 Queens College Art Center 65-30 Kissena Blvd., Flushing, (718) 997-3770 Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum 32-37 Vernon Blvd., LI City, (718) 721-1932 Ro Gallery Image Makers 47-15 36th St., LI City, (718) 937-0901 Copyright © 1996 - 2008 Easynett, Inc. The Willow Lake (Pedestrian) Bridge in Flushing Meadows-Corona
Park and the 51st Avenue Pedestrian Bridge in Woodside were labeled in poor and fair condition during recent inspections by city and state inspectors who recommended replacement of the two spans. News of the ratings came to light last week, after Governor Eliot Spitzer directed state agencies to conduct a thorough examination of 49 city bridges following the collapse of a 40-year old bridge in Minneapolis. City and state inspectors who tagged the bridges deficient inspect every New York City bridge at least once every two years, a state DOT spokesperson said. The two spans are among many city bridges that have been rated under what officials termed a state of the art inspection system which considers factors such as structural adequacy, safety, serviceability and function. Law enforcement sources said Piedra, although banned by
the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA), is easily available on the Internet from overseas suppliers. Shipments of the "love drug", which resembles chunks of stale chocolate, often evade notice by U.S. Customs inspectors. The stimulant is also being sold at Queens bodegas and sex shops in small plastic bags marked with one of the product names. City health inspectors are currently making the rounds of the stores, ordering owners to remove it from their shelves. DOH officials are urging anyone who uses the stimulant, or anyone who knows someone who has or is using it to call the city Poison Control Center at 212-POISONS. Chartered by the New York State Board of Regents, the Bowne House Historical Society's mission includes the preservation of the house, its contents and grounds for its historical and educational
interest, for its significance to the history of New York and for its importance in the establishment in this country of the fundamental principles of freedom of conscience and religious liberty. 37-01 Bowne St., Flushing, NY 11354 1-718-359-0528 11. Bowne House Known as the birthplace of Religious Freedom in America, the
Bowne House was
occupied by nine
generations of the Bowne Family. Built
in 1661 by John Bowne, this National
Historic Landmark offers tours to display the architectural and cultural changes to occur in Queens throughout the past 350 years. 137-16 Northern Blvd., Flushing, NY 11354 1-718-358-9636 12. Quaker Meeting House This unassuming, dark-shingled, hipped-roofed building is New York City's oldest house of worship, and has been used continuously since 1694. Jamaica Avenue between 150th & 153rd Streets Jamaica, NY 11432 1-718-206-0545 13. A multicolor scheme was utilized throughout the space to create a vibrant and playful atmosphere, aiming to draw in a younger crowd. The first building, eShops, is comprised of individual
retail stores, with corridors providing a circular path of movement, taking visitors around the mall, breaking down the units into better proportions. An entrance ramp leads to an interior courtyard with skylights, creating a double-height atrium. The second building, Flushing Marketplace, includes columns clad with bricks and beams
laminated with
aged wood, skylights
and
fountains. The current shape of the park is an oval stretching from Flushing Bay to Union Turnpike. Within the park, there are many places for relaxation and recreation. Among the 124 acres of natural areas are Flushing Creek and Bay, Willow Lake and expanses of meadow and marshland. Meadow Lake--the 84-acre manmade, freshwater lake--is New York City's largest lake.
Cultural institutions in the park are plentiful, appealing to a wide variety of interests. Today, the New
York Hall of Science, a relic from the 1964 World's Fair, houses a hands-on science and technology museum. One of them still operates at Flushing Meadows-Corona park today, and arrived at the 1964 Fair already being a legacy of Coney Island's golden age from the turn of the 20th century. Also
featured
on the site are World's Fair construction site maps, games, and an amazing peek into the site host's extensive collection of World's Fair memorabilia. Check it out! http://64nywf65.20m.com/ Peace Through Understanding- The forum for all thingsDefinitive related to the World's Fairs!Originally a forum for the 1964-1965 New York World's Fair, this popular web forum has branched out to include
of the major International Expositions throughout the last 150 years. Links & Resources Flushing Council partners with schools and local community organizations in the development of arts-in-education programs that will spark interest in the arts and enhance learning in all academic areas. We currently partner with the NYC Department of Education, the Center for Arts Education, the New York State Council on the Arts and NYC Department for Youth and Community Development to bring arts programs into schools. Through a grant from the New York State Council for the Arts, Flushing Council partners with JHS 189 to produce a multi-media performance based on students' adaptation of a familiar piece of literature. This year-long project engages students in several academic areas including visual arts, music, and language arts. Museums in
and around New York City Selected Museums: American Museum of the Moving Image 35th Ave. at 36th St., Astoria, NY; (718) 784-0077 Tuesday to Friday 12:00-4:00; Saturday to Sunday 12:00-6:00 Admission $5.00 adults, $2.50 students Central Park West at West 79th Street, Manhattan; (212) 769-5100 Open Sunday to Thursday 10:00-5:45; Friday and Saturday 10:00-8:45 Admission fee is suggested--$8.00 adults, $6.00 students; free admission
Friday and Saturday evenings, and Saturday and Sunday 12:00-5:00 Bronx Museum of the Arts 1040 Grand Concourse, Bronx, NY; (212) 681-6000 Open Monday to Thursday 10:00-4:30;
Sunday 11:00-4:30 Admission $2.00 adults, $1.00 students,
children and Sundays free   STAY OFF ICE ON LAKES AND PONDS New Yorkers are warned against going onto or
near the ice of ponds and lakes. Determining the strength of ice is extremely difficult, especially for an untrained individual. Ice must be at least six inches thick before it can maintain the weight of a person, and to freeze to the right thickness, the temperature must be well below
freezing
for weeks. Ice strength is affected by the depth of the water, the size of the water body, the water’s chemistry, the distribution of weight on the ice, and local climatic factors. BY NOAH ROSENBERG Wednesday, July 30, 2008 8:21 PM EDT A passerby paused mid-cell phone conversation and mouth agape, as he stared at a group of people hammering and chiseling away at a mammoth slab of granite. Pieces of stone flaked off like cake crumbs. Bits of mortar pirouetted through the air. Visitors to Flushing Meadows-Corona Park probably hadn’t seen such a flurry of activity at the park’s Vatican Bench since it was installed for the 1964 World’s Fair. Officially known as the New York City Parks & Recreation Department’s Citywide Monuments Conservation Program, the Monuments Crew is a public-private partnership founded in 1997 to augment the city’s Capital Projects Division and maintenance forces. The Crew monitors the city’s collection of around 1,200 monuments, though its precise definition of a monument is not set in stone as the program also tends to playgrounds and works of pure art. Share this article:               BY YALDAZ SADAKOVA Wednesday, July 30, 2008 7:17 PM EDT The biggest multi-cultural celebration in the city - the 18th annual Hong Kong Dragon Boat Festival in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park - is almost here! This free international event, which
takes place on August 2 and 3 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., will feature the famous dragon boat race on Meadow Lake. This race is not your typical boat race. For one thing, the boats are special - they are narrow, dragon-shaped, made of teak and painted in different colors. Also, each one of them has a drummer on board whose beating sets the speed for the vessel. NYC Art Galleries Outside Manhattan Bronx Museum of the Arts 1040 Grand Concourse, Bronx, (718) 681-6000 Bronx River Art Center 1087 E. Tremont Ave., Bronx, (718) 589-5819 Coffee and Tea of Yesteryear 318 Main Street, Avon-By-The-Sea, New Jersey 07717 Lehman College Art 250 Bedford Park Blvd.,
Bronx NY (718)-960-8731 Longwood Arts 965 Longwood Ave., Bronx, (718) 842-5659 Wave Hill 675 W.
252nd St., Bronx, (718)
549-3200 Although your Baby Boomer memories of this sixties expo may be fading, let us help you re-live your fabulous World Fair experiences with visits to pavilions by
Africa, Alaska, Israel, American Express, AMF, Amphicar,
Arlington Hat, Austria, Avis, Bell System, Belgium, Berlin, Billy Graham, Boy Scouts, Caribbean, Central America, China, Chrysler, Chunky Candy, Churchill, Chun King, Clairol, Coke (Coca-Cola), Continental Insurance, Denmark, DuPont, Eastman Kodak, Eastern Air Lines, Gas Company, First National City Bank, Florida, Ford, Formica, France, General Cigar, General Electric, General Foods, General
Motors, Greece, Greyhound, Guinea, Hawaii, Hertz, Hollywood, Hong Kong, IBM, Illinois, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, Jaycopter, Johnson Wax, Jordan, Julimar Farms, Korea, Lebanon, Les Poupees de Paris, Log Flume, Long Island Railroad, Lowenbrau, Malaysia, Maryland, Masons, Mastro Pizza, Medo Photo, Mexico, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana,
Mormon Church,
Morocco, National Maritime Union, National Cash Register, NCR, New England States, New Jersey, New York,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Pakistan, Panama, Parker Pen, Pepsi Cola, Philippeans, Polynesia, Port of New York Authority, RCA, Rheingold, Santa Maria, Schaefer Brewing, Scott Paper, Sermons from Science, Seven-up, Shea Stadium, Sierra Leone, Simmons, Sinclair, Singer Sewing, SKF Industries, Socony Mobil, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Swiss Sky Ride, Switzerland, Thailand, Tiparillo, Travelers Insurance, Electric Industries, United Arab Republic, UAR,
Unisphere, United States, Postal Service, US Rubber, Vatican City, Venezuela, Wax Museum, Westinghouse, West Virginia, Wisconsin. They are not only from all over the city and the country, but also from around the world, from places like Canada, for example, which is big on water sports, Archer explained. This year’s New York celebration will
feature 150 competing teams, with 12 to 20 people on each, said Archer. He explained that these participants are amateurs from clubs and employees of the companies that sponsor the festival. This year’s teams include the Chinatown YMCA, the KeySpan Corporate Team, the Dragon Boat Club of Boston and the Aquaholics Dragon Boat Team from Toronto, Canada, according to festival organizers. The teams have been practicing for the event at
places such as Meadow
Lake every weekend
since the beginning of June,
said Archer. More than 10,000 people are expected to come to the Meadow Lake area to watch teams participate. Each dragon boat has a crew of 18 or more. Sitting side by side to row, one person steers the boat at the rudder. There is also a drummer, setting a pace for the crew. Traditionally, dragon boats are about 38 feet long. Decorated in brilliant colors, the sleek and speedy boats are made of teakwood and fiberglass and have a dragon's head and tail painted at the prow and stern, respectively. There will also be music, performances and food at the event which takes place from 9 a.m. Queens Botanical Garden’s Visitor & Administration Center Draws Architects from Around the World   lcooper@queensbotanical.org – Queens Botanical Garden’s futuristic Visitor & Administration Center was built by New York City to showcase all the advanced technology available to mitigate global warming. As a demonstration project, it’s been a big
hit.Flushing, New York, March 21, 2008 On March 20, twelve top executives from Chinese energy, construction, and design firms visited the Garden to take a look at the V&A Center. Architects from the Manhattan firm Perkins Eastman invited the executives to consider the green technologies used in the V&A Center for the
approximately 30 projects the firm is designing in China, according to architect Edward Stand. > About Parks Parks Home About the Department of Parks & Recreation Parks & Recreation is the steward of more than 29,000 acres of land — 14 percent of New York City — including more than 4,000 individual properties ranging from and to and . We operate more than 800 and nearly 1,000 ; we manage five major stadia, 550 , 54 , 51 , 15 , 13 , and 14 miles of ; we care for 1,200 and 22 ; we look after 600,000 , and two million more in parks. We are New York Citys principal provider of
athletic
facilities. We are home to free concerts, world-class sports events, and cultural festivals. But I simply didn't see the I adore at Red Hook; huaraches even make an appearance at the There was certainly nothing as lovely and unexpected as the I recently discovered by the roadside in Bushwick. huaraches and quesadillas much smaller festivals on 116th St. Mexican ice cream The most heavily laden tortilla below, from the Jackson Heights restaurant Bella Puebla, packed rice, beans, chicken, and a chili-packed Oaxaque a-style mole sauce (three for $10, though mine was courtesy of a fellow diner; thanks, Louis!). At 1,255 acres, Flushing Meadows- Corona Park is the second largest park in New York City, exceeded in size only by Pelham Bay Park in The Bronx. And while other parks can be found throughout Queens, for the two million people who live in the borough, Flushing Meadows- Corona Park is their unofficial back yard. Flandro and her counterparts said their summer job amounted to open air edification, with a dose of sweat and muscle. Admiring her paint job on the Vatican Bench’s
engraved text, the Colorado native nodded in approval after reading the “very wordy” inscription. “Well you have to think, whenever somebody put up a monument there’s a reason, you know. These things aren’t cheap,” said fellow intern Steven O’Banion. “I think they reflect the interests of the people that put them there.” Kuhn hopes that preserving the historical circumstances of the collection “reflects our city at large and the creativity of the city at large.” His objective is not lost on intern Lindsay McCook. 1661) is the oldest house in Queens and among the oldest in New York City.Welcome to The Bowne House
Historical
Society It was built by John Bowne, who emigrated from England to Boston in 1649 and settled in Flushing, Queens, when New York was under Dutch Rule. His family prospered in America: the nine generations born and raised in the house produced businessmen, horticulturalists, educators and politicians. “At Heart Gallery NYC our motto is ‘Shoot a photo, change a life,’ ” she said. With over 50 portraits being featured in their upcoming Queens Center Mall exhibit on August 14, Heart Gallery hopes to change at least 50 more. For foster children who have spent years looking for
permanent homes, finally finding someone to love is huge. The diverse habitats include salt marsh, upland fields and woods, several fresh water ponds, and an open expanse of bay and islands. 228-06 Northern Blvd., Douglaston, NY 11363 1-718-229-4000 / 1-718-229-0376 - fax www.alleypond.com 15. Alley Pond Environmental Center The center is the home of the only working windmill in New York
City, and with an extensive system of nature trails on the grounds, it offers a wide range of
educational programs related to the environment. 143-35 37th Ave., Flushing, NY 11354 1-718-939-0647 / 1-718-539-9885 - fax 16. Kingsland House Built for Charles Doughty in 1785, the historic building is now home to the Queens Historical Society. 17. Rockaway Peninsula Beaches Accessible by car or public transportation, the 10 miles of beaches on the Rockaway peninsula offer a convenient getaway for millions of people all summer. We must, however, point out that in this respect, all parks, apparently, are not created equal. Fourteen robberies, a vicious beating and a murder in Central Park would have sent a wave of indignation throughout the city. We don't recall anything much happening after Flores' murder or Park's assault. The unpleasant but
logical, only
conclusion possible is
that in some quarters, what happens in this borough doesn't count for much. Queens is a part of the city of New York, and so is Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. Univision Communications is headquartered in
Los Angeles with television network operations in Miami and television and radio stations and sales offices in major cities throughout the United States.   For more information, please visit . 05-11-2006 Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with Univision Personalities at Flushing Meadow Park New York, NY Flushing Meadow Corona ParkSunday, May 14, 11 am to 6 pmKarla MartinezFernando ArauAntonio MartinezMerjoel DuranJack Rico Queens was home to the tribes of the Delaware Indian when the European colonizers began to arrive in the early seventeen century.  The Dutch vied with the English for control of the colony in the 1600 until a treaty between the two nations in 1679 gave the American colony to the British. It was then that Queens received its name after the wife of Charles II of England, Queen Catherine of Braganza.    Ten years
ago, in 1997, a homeless man was killed and his body dumped in a lake in Manhattan's Central Park. The cries of outrage were audible throughout the tri-state area, as they
should have been.
The murder was
a vicious act and
deserved the opprobrium it received. However, the murder of Flores, a 44-year-old Ecuadorian immigrant, for $6 and a MetroCard, seems to us equally heinous and equally deserving of the kind of hue and cry attendant on such a crime in Midtown Manhattan. Any kind of incident that happens in Central Park is almost certain to be considered front page news. Contact Us PARK FACT: The country's first completely accessible playground, the Playground for All Children, opened in Flushing Meadows Corona Park in 1984. > > > Fifth Annual Gala To Benefit Flushing Meadows Corona Park Explore Your Park Flushing Meadows Corona Park News Flushing Meadows Corona Park Tuesday, June 3, 2008 No. 58 Fifth Annual Gala To Benefit Flushing Meadows Corona Park IMMEDIATE http://www.nyc.gov/parks Unisphere, Inc., will host at the Ederle Terrace in Flushing Meadows Corona Park on Thursday, June 19, 2008 at 6:00 p.m. Handsomely rebuilt during the late 1980s, the
5.5-acre Central Park Zoo is home to 450 animals representing some 100 species. A colonnade of tall columns, topped by a pitched glass roof, runs through the center of the Temperate Territory, one of three major exhibits here defined by climactic zone and the only one fully exposed to the elements. The car that stole the show at the 1939 World's Fair. Brought to life in a sensational die-cast model. Hand-assembled in 1:24 scale. Precision engineered with a complete array
of working features. Your model arrives with custom-designed packaging valued by knowledgeable collectors. Own the car that led the way on the Road to the Future at the '39 World's Fair! Additional Details It was 1939. The end of the Great Depression neared. "A Watershed Moment: Celebrating the Homecoming of The New York City Water Supply Model" Exhibition Showing at in the The Queens area. Permanent event Media: Queens Museum of Art Other In 1937, New York City was in preparation for the 1939's World's Fair, the first of two in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. To celebrate the immense and intricate inner-workings of the City, various agencies were invited to produce exhibitions for the New York City Pavilion (now the Queens Museum of Art). frame construction.  Jamaica is older, and the construction there is mostly frame. 
Douglaston, at the other
extreme, is one of
the wealthiest neighborhoods in the borough, along with Jamaica Estates and Malba, and here you can find mansions reminiscent of European baronial estates.  In Holliswood, no two homes appear to be alike as you travel down its charming winding streets.  Driving along Queens Blvd. Michael Navarro, Executive Chef from Deluge
Restaurant with the restaurant's hostess Michelle Stoddart, Queens Economic Development Corporation marketing and tourism director, stated: "Flushing restaurants are an integral part of Restaurant Week. The diversity here in Asian cuisine is a big appeal, since people are coming to discover Queens and to discover Flushing. QEDC is excited to promote Flushing restaurants in the fourth Annual Discover Queens Restaurant Week. Flushing restaurants are diverse and offer great cuisines in unique atmospheres. All diners will enjoy the experience." Timothy Chuang, Destination Flushing Cuisine Association president, stated: "With Discover Queens Restaurant Week we hope that people will also discover Flushing. The USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center (NTC) in Flushing, N.Y. is the home of the US Open. The NTC is open to
the public throughout the year, offering three Stadium, 22 outdoor and nine indoor courts. Its centerpiece, Arthur Ashe Stadium, is widely-recognized as one of the world⊃1;s greatest sports and entertainment venues, providing a magnificent stage for tennis⊃1; biggest names and their greatest
matches. In addition to the US
Open, the NTC also hosts a number of exciting events, a full spectrum of USA Tennis programs and components of the USA Tennis High Performance training for elite junior players as well. Larry Guadagno and the Mattone family will be recognized for their contribution to Flushing Meadows Corona Park at the event. “Our honorees are longstanding and generous contributors to the Queens community and we feel privileged to honor them,” said Assistant Commissioner Estelle Cooper. “We deeply appreciate their generosity and concern for our beautiful park, and we invite the community to join us in celebrating these outstanding individuals and promoting ongoing enhancements to the park.” Unisphere, Inc. Chairman Bruce Bendell, who is also the President of Major World Auto, said, “Unisphere, Inc. was established in 2003 to help
finance special projects and service enhancements at Flushing Meadows Corona Park. With the supplemental dollars we raise, the park is able to focus its own resources on local acquisition, upkeep and stewarding of capital projects.” The Polar Circle features above- and below-water
views of
the
polar bear enclosure. Inside are chinstrap and gentoo penguins, as well as tufted puffins, in large breeding groups. Harbor seals and Arctic foxes occupy an adjacent habitat. Just north of the center is the newly rebuilt Children's Zoo, which is a must for kids but a delight for adults, too. Special ladders and ropes are also installed around the edges for trained personnel to use in the event of an emergency. New York City's Parks & Recreation offers the following Ice Safety Tips: Never go on frozen waters (unless clearly marked otherwise with official signs). Parents and caregivers should make sure children are never unattended near ice. If you hear cracking, lie down immediately to try to distribute your weight. If you witness someone falling through ice, never attempt to make a rescue by
yourself. As result of working on
this project, students report that they learned to work as team members and that they are more analytical in making choices. New York City Department of Education Project ARTS funds also make this project possible. Flushing Council also provides experienced teaching artists in visual
arts, literary arts, music and dance who will work with teachers and administrators to plan appropriate instructional projects and
activities, provide direct services to children, conduct parent workshops, and work with teachers in professional development sessions devoted to curriculum writing and
creation of projects. We are partnering with PS 22 in a Parents as Arts Partners grant provided by
the Center for Arts Education. when Chinese poet and reformer Qu Yuan drowned himself to protest against the emperor’s policies. In an effort to rescue him, the locals went
to into the water, racing in boats. To prevent fish and water dragons from eating the poet’s body, the people beat drums and splashed paddles. Ever since, dragon boat racing has been an annual rite in China commemorating this poet. Over the years, dragon boat racing evolved into an international activity and has been gaining in popularity worldwide, said David Archer, marketing director of the festival in New York. Among the most popular exhibits, the Road of Tomorrow at the Ford Expo Building. And the centerpiece there, the 1939 Ford Convertible Coupe, considered by many as the most beautiful Ford ever. Now, you
can acquire the definitive die-cast re-creation of this classic. Hand-assembled from more than 225 separate parts, this sensational model is precision engineered with operable steering and suspension, spinning road wheels, doors that open and close, a rumble seat that opens, and windows that can actually crank up and down! Look at the interior and you'll find a fully instrumented
dash, precise down to
each gauge. Lift the hood and take in the intricacies of the fully detailed engine, with every wire and hose in place. Hand-painted in the official colors of the '39 World's Fair.