We created hudsonreporter.com to answer some of those questions, yet we hope it will do more. We'd like our site to be a sort of meeting place
a town square, if you will, where you can read about the people, politics and places that make living here so exciting. Hudson Reporter Assoc. L.P. 1400 Washington Street PO Box 3069 Hoboken, NJ 07030 phone: 201-798-7800 fax: 201-798-0018
e-mail:internet@hudsonreporter.com Columbus Day Celebrants Visit City Hall   Mayor Roberts (3rd from the right) welcomed Italian dignitaries from the cities of Florence and Avellino ,
Italy to his office.  Pictured with
Mayor Roberts are Luigi De
Prizio (left), Alberto Caracciolo (second from left), Alex Corrado of Hoboken (third from right), Francesco Genzale, and Antonnio Guerriero. Stevens was
born in , the son of (1715-1792), a prominent politician who served as a delegate to the ,
and Elizabeth Alexander, daughter of New York lawyer and statesman . His sister, Mary Stevens (d. 1814), married , the first Chancellor of the State of New York. New York, New York John Stevens New Jersey Continental Congress James Alexander Robert R. Chile Pepper Magazine recently chose Hoboken Eddie's Specialties of Hoboken, NJ as an official winner in their famous Fiery Food Challenge. The Challenge is one of the oldest and most prestigious contests in the world of hot and spicy food. More than 50 culinary educators, chefs and food writers chose Hoboken Eddie's sauce from hundreds of entrants. Eddie's sauce knocked their spurs off! Our award-winning periodicals also include specialty publications and two, glossy magazines:
Jersey City Magazine and Palisade. The past few years have brought tremendous change to the western banks of the Hudson River. As newcomers flock to the area and
explore their surroundings, long-time
residents are meeting their neighbors - and discovering new opportunities - at every turn. Oddly enough, the floatbridge
apron itself was owned by the Lackawanna, which took it after it was taken out. < the railroad backed a 44-tonner onto the bridge apron Returning to the "main," we see the 700 on River Street. The floatbridge yard, at right, also stored cars for adjacent Maxwell House, and that plant's switch to truck service was the final nail in the railroad's coffin. Hobokens best kept secret 04/25/2008 Posted by ESanti1980 You have probably
driven or walked by this place a million times and never knew what was inside. Everything from the continental cuisine to the chic decor makes this place one of my favorites. If you want to lounge or go out for a wonderful dinner. During the warmer months I like to sit in their outdoor seating and enjoy Hoboken. In the , and some nations, the term for women's owes its
origin to ' illustrator, , who did the illustrations for Washington Irving's droll when it was published in London. He showed the old-time Knickerbockers in their loose Dutch breeches, and by 1859, short loose ladies undergarments, a kind
of abbreviated version of or ,
were in England. When the park is
constructed, a beam of light is planned to be in the center. There are 57 victims recognized in the project. Currently, there is a temporary memorial already on , in the form of a tear drop.Hoboken Island 7 Hoboken, New Jersey Pier A September 11, 2001 FLOW group Pier A [] edit Frank Sinatra Park Sinatra Park Applied's and strength are in its ability to successfully plan and execute the development of complex,
multi-faceted
projects. The company works closely with
local, state and federal agencies, as well as
architectural,
engineering, environmental and construction firms to achieve its goals. Applied's decades of experience in acquiring, planning, financing, constructing, and managing large-scale developments has made the company a leader in the industry. Joined the People for Open Government (POG) in two successful campaigns for passage of anti pay-to-play and other restrictive measures on developers and those doing business with the city. Protested the use of eminent domain on Grand Street Held public meetings regarding the St. Mary Hospital ownership by the city. Interspersed with all of these
matters, QLC attempted to save historic buildings at the Maxwell House site and the old Clam Broth House. The Friends also
donated the core startup collections of videos and DVD's! The Friends sponsor a number of
activities, including the Conversation Program, book sales, the oral history project, and the Library's programs for families. English as a Second Language "Vanishing Hoboken" First Saturday Friends of the Hoboken Library Ruth Charnes, President Hoboken Library 500 Park Avenue Hoboken, NJ, 07030 Your participation as an interviewer or transcriber would be most welcome. No experience is required; all you need is
curiosity about Hoboken's past and a willingness to commit a few hours to the project. We provide the recording equipment and
how-to instruction. Please contact us at . info@hobokenfol.org A number of chapbooks (small booklets) containing excerpts of interviews have already been
produced: During the , the International Nickel Company, under the direction of president Charles Stanley (M.E., 1943) developed the ultra-pure nickel that was used
to fabricate diffusion
barriers used in the gaseous isotope diffusion separation process at Los Alamos which produced the uranium-235 used in the . Previous attempts at gas diffusion failed due to impurities
in the diffusion barrier alloys causing corrosion of the apparatus by the uranium hexafluoride gas used in the process. The New York City A Course In Miracles Meetup GroupTom McDonnell is a member of Member
of this Meetup Group since December 31, 2008 None yet. Introduction I've been a student of the course since 1994. I've found many of the ideas feel righ, have universal applicability, and like spiritually in general, has no down side. 11.0% of the population and 10.0% of families are below the . Out of the total population, 23.6%
of those under the age of 18 and 20.7% of those 65 and older are living below the poverty line. per capita income poverty line The per capita income for a group of people may be defined as their total personal income, divided by the total population. As a completely volunteer-run non-profit organization, we provide free kayaking and small non-motorized boat access to the
Hudson River.  During the summer of 2005 we will once
again hold free kayaking days at Frank Sinatra Park.
These popular events are free, fun, and open to the public. Kids under 16 can go for a paddle in a safe, stable 2-person sit-on-top kayak (along with a parent or responsible adult). considers our town 'behind enemy lines'. (Not sure how we feel about that.) probably sets the local standard for cool posts. The site is largely photography-driven and frequently links to other photo sites. Count on Eric to show you things you haven't
seen elsewhere. is a blog that looks at Hoboken and Jersey City from a Manhattan prism. The southern end in may eventually connect to the , another proposed walkway along and on the west side of the peninsula. Its northern end is in , allowing users to continue
along the river bank and alpine paths to the New Jersey/ state line and beyond. (A connection to the , a 330-mile (530 km) hiking trail with terminus near , is feasible.)