Spiritualism was mainly a and movement, and
especially popular with women. U.S.
spiritualists would meet in private homes for s ances, at lecture halls for trance lectures,
at state or national conventions, and at summer camps attended by thousands. Among the most
significant of the camp meetings were Camp Etna, in ; Onset Bay Grove, in ; , in western ; ,
in ; the , in ; and , in . And since matter is merely the material opposite of consciousness
(ultimately the Highest aspect of
us being pure consciousness), this interpenetration of sheaths allows for consciousness
to interpenetrate Man's nature and explains how we are sensitive to what we think is external stimulate, through the five senses. Theosophy, as well as many other
esoteric groups and societies, claims in their that the universe is ordered by the number .
(see ). However, works published before 1923
may be in the public domain in countries where they would ordinarily be copyrighted (due to
the term of 70 years [or less] after the author's death having not yet expired) but whose
legislature has
waived copyright by accepting the
.Some public domain Help:Public domain rule of the shorter term , a novel by Frances Hodgson
Burnett, and several film and
TV adaptations of the same story The Secret
Garden a movie directed by
and starring , and The Secret Garden (1919 film) Gustav von Seyffertitz Lila Lee Spottiswoode
Aitken Paul Willis a movie directed by Fred M. Wilcox and starring Dean Stockwell and
Margaret O'Brien The Secret Garden (1949 film) a TV movie starring Gennie James, ,
Jadrien Steele, and The Secret Garden (1987 film) Barret Oliver Michael Hordern Derek
Jacobi In a few cases, fraud practiced under the guise of Spiritualism was prosecuted in the
courts. s ances automatic writing [1] [2] Seybert Commission [10] [11] , 1922. Harry Price
Prominent investigators who exposed cases of fraud came from a variety of backgrounds, including professional researchers such as of the or of the , and professional
such as . Maskelyne exposed the by appearing in the audience during their shows and explaining how the trick was done. It also appealed to some who had a orientation
and rejected organized religion. The influential and embraced religion following his
experiences in Spiritualist circles.causes
du jour [2] materialist socialist atheist Robert Owen [] edit Unorganized movement The
movement quickly
spread throughout the world; though only in the did it become as widespread as in the United
States. Right thinking has a healing effect. [] edit Evolution of thought Adherents also
generally believe that as humankind gains greater understanding of the world, New Thought
itself will evolve to assimilate new knowledge. Alan Anderson and Deb Whitehouse have
described New Thought as a "process" in which each individual and even the New Thought
Movement itself is "new every moment." An extremely popular trance lecturer, she traveled
about the United States until her death in 1861. Sprague was an and an advocate of . Achsa W.
Sprague Plymouth Notch, Vermont rheumatic
fever abolitionist women's rights [2] Yet another prominent spiritualist and trance
medium prior to the was (1825 1875), an "Free Man of
Color," who also played a part in the movement. Human beings, being the only self conscious
types in this continuum, are the product of countless awakenings into this state through
lives of involvement with
this "Radical Unity" and are therefore growing positively, when the awareness of this has
become obvious. [] edit Evolution and Race Theosophists believe that , , , , commerce, and
philanthropy, among other "virtues," lead people ever closer to "the Absolute." However, just as it seems they have become friends, Neville and Mrs. Medlock burst
in, intending to give Colin
his nightly shot, and
dismiss her angrily, telling her
she is never to see Colin again. As the storm reaches its peak, Mary runs outside and finds the
garden ("Final Storm"). Act II Mary has a reverie about "The Girl I Mean to Be," with "a
place I can go when I am lost." Works by this author are in the in countries where the
copyright term is the author's life plus 70 years or less. public domain They are not
necessarily in the in the United States if published from 1923 to 1977. For a US-applicable
version, see {{}}. public domain PD-1996 or all works by this author are in the in the United
States because they were published before
January 1, 1923. Still others, such as , attempted to view spiritualist phenomena from a
scientific perspective, eschewing
discussion on both theological and reform issues.The Banner of LightThe Religio-Philosophical
JournalMind and MatterThe SpiritualistThe MediumRevue SpiriteLe MessagerAnnali dello
SpiritismoEl Criterio EspiritistaThe Harbinger of Light [18] Spiritual MagazineHuman
NatureThe Spiritualist [19] The movement was extremely individualistic, with each person
relying on her own
experiences and reading to discern the
nature of the . The musical's book and lyrics are by , with music by . It premiered on at
the on and closed on after 709 performances.The Secret Garden musical novel of the same name
Frances Hodgson Burnett Marsha Norman Lucy
Simon Broadway St. James Theatre 25 April 1991 3 January 1993 The musical, set in 1906, tells
of a young girl, Mary, who is forced to move
to England from colonial when her parents
die in a outbreak.
Dickon, the brother of one of the house maids, tells her of a garden secreted behind a hidden
door in a vine-covered wall. When a raven unearths the key, the two enter and discover the
garden is overgrown from
neglect since Craven's wife died there in an accident. They decide to keep their
discovery a secret, and begin to restore it
to its original grandeur. During World War I, Burnett put her beliefs about what happens
after death into writing with the novella:
The White People. Frances Hodgson Burnett
died in Plandome, New York This biography was taken verbatim from the . We're providing a
snapshot just in case the Wikipedia servers were temporarily unreacheable. The is not only
much more up-to-date, it also features links to other pages and sites. This snapshot was last updated: 08/07/2004. When Mary's uncle briefly meets with her for the
first time since her
arrival, Mary asks him for permission to claim her own garden from any abandoned part of
the grounds, and he acquiesces. Thanks to her new-found interests and activities, Mary
herself begins to blossom, losing her
sickly look and unpleasant manner. robin On several
occasions, Mary hears someone weeping in another part of the house.