Frances Hodgson Burnett, who was born in England in 1849 but came to America as a young
woman, had her novel "The Secret Garden" published in 1909; and ten years later it was made into a silent movie. Whether or not a copy of that film exists, I
have no idea. In 1949, the centennial of the author's birth, M~G~M released its remake of the novel starring the popular child actress of the 40's Margaret O'Brien (the refreshingly morbid Tootie of "Meet Me in St Louis"), who was just entering her teens. Works by this author are in the in countries where the copyright term is the author's life plus 70 years or less. public domain They are not necessarily in the in the United States
if published from 1923
to 1977. For a US-applicable version, see {{}}. public domain PD-1996 or all works by this author are in the in the United States because they were published before January 1, 1923. They may be copyrighted outside the U.S. (see ). However, works published before 1923 may be in the public domain in countries where they would ordinarily be copyrighted (due to the term of 70 years [or less] after the author's death having not yet expired) but whose legislature has waived copyright by accepting the .Some public domain Help:Public domain rule of the shorter term One year, while living in Los Angeles, a friend surprised me for my birthday by taking me to a "revival theater" to see this film. When the movie ended, the lights went up and
someone announced that there was a special guest in the audience. That special guest was Margaret O'Brien, who was seated in the row directly behind me. What a thrill to see Miss
O'Brien in person and to hear about her experiences as a child actress, in this film and in others. My friend had known about Miss O'Brien's "impending appearance," but didn't tell me. A birthday evening I
will forever cherish. For 92 glorious minutes, I was that little 8-year-old once again...watching this film for the very first time. But this time, as I watched Margaret O'Brien on celluloid, she was seated just a whisper away. Thank you for shopping at the Depot.com online shopping depot. The Secret Garden (1949 film) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: , navigation search is a , the second screen adaptation of by . The screenplay
by was directed by . It centers on a young who is thrust into the dark and mysterious lives of her widowed uncle and his crippled son when she comes to live with them in their isolated country house in .The Secret
Garden 1949 American drama film the classic 1909 novel Frances Hodgson Burnett Robert Ardrey Fred M. Wilcox orphan Yorkshire, England The release was filmed primarily in black-and-white, with the sequences set in the restored garden of the title filmed in . MGM Technicolor Contents [] edit Plot synopsis Born from the interaction of atman, buddhi, and manas, kama per se is a colourless force, good or bad according to the way the mind and soul use it. It is the seat of the living electrical impulses, desires, and aspirations, considered in their energetic aspect. k ma kam The fifth principle is (Sanskrit, from the verbal root meaning to think). The seat of mentation and egoic consciousness; in humanity Manas is the human person, the reincarnating ego, immortal in essence, enduring in its higher aspects through the entire
manvantara. When embodied, manas is dual, gravitating toward buddhi in its higher aspects and in its lower aspects toward kama. The earliest identifiable proponent of what came to be
known as New Thought was (1802 66), an
American philosopher, , healer, and inventor. Quimby developed a system that included the tenet that illness originated in the as a consequence of erroneous beliefs and that a mind open to 's wisdom could overcome any illness. During the late 19th century the healing
practices of Quimby mingled with the "Mental Science" of Warren Felt Evans, a . Phineas Parkhurst Quimby mesmerist belief mind God [7] metaphysical Swedenborgian minister [8] Notable pioneers in the movement also included , and . Charles Fillmore William Walker Atkinson Ernest Holmes [] edit A movement of the printed word New Thought was also largely a movement of the printed word. The 1890s and the first decades of the 20th century
saw an explosion of what would become known as self-help books, including the financial success and will-training books of , , and . Dickon, the brother of
one of the house maids, tells her of a garden secreted behind a hidden door in a vine-covered wall. When a raven unearths the key, the two enter and discover the garden is overgrown from neglect since Craven's wife died there in an accident. They decide to keep their discovery a
secret, and begin to restore it to its original grandeur. The story of a spiteful, selfish girl Mary Lennox who (after her parents' deaths in India) must live with
her embittered uncle, a widower, and
his crippled son Colin on
their
gloomy Yorkshire estate, the plot follows the girl's obsession with death and her realization, through the "resurrection" of a dead garden, of life's positive aspects. Filmed in an almost forbidding black-and-white, the picture turns into three-strip Technicolor once Mary and the "nature boy" Dickon enter the garden they have transformed into a secluded Eden. (Evidently the Technicolor was meant to be a surprise for 1949 audiences, because it's not mentioned in the opening credits, only at The End.) Margaret O'Brien is excellent as Mary, slowly changing from brat to sensitive young lady. The only drawback is the constant references to how unattractive the character is; obviously, Miss O'Brien was growing into a beauty. Dean Stockwell is properly imperious as Colin, who also undergoes a metamorphosis under the garden's spell. It was a movement in that most of its teachers and students were women; notable among the founders of the movement were , known as the "teacher of teachers" , , and ; and has been described as an form of , with its churches and community centers mostly led by women, from the 1880s to today. Unity Church Religious Science Church of Divine Science [4]
feminist Emma Curtis Hopkins Myrtle Fillmore Malinda Cramer Nona L. Spirit is the ultimate reality. True human self-hood is divine. Divinely attuned thought is a positive force for good. All
disease is mental in origin. Right thinking has a healing effect. [] edit Evolution of thought Adherents also generally believe that as humankind gains greater understanding of the world, New Thought itself will evolve to assimilate new knowledge. Alan Anderson and Deb Whitehouse have described New Thought as a "process" in which each individual and even the New Thought Movement itself is "new every moment."
William Walker Atkinson Thought Vibration or the Law of Attraction in the Thought World [10] New Thought religious spiritual occult The following year, , the editor of , published Bruce MacLelland's book ,
in which he summarized the "Law of Attraction" as a New Thought principle, stating "You are what you think, not what you think you are." Elizabeth Towne The Nautilus Magazine, a Journal of New Thought Prosperity Through Thought Force [11] These magazines were used to reach a
large audience. [] edit Theological inclusionism The Home of Truth, which, from its inception as the Pacific Coast
Metaphysical Bureau in the
1880s, under the leadership of , has disseminated the teachings of the teacher , is one of the more outspokenly interfaith of New Thought organizations, stating adherence to "the principle that Truth is Truth where ever it is found and who ever is sharing it." Annie Rix
Militz Hindu Swami Vivekananda [16] [] edit Therapeutic ideas Divine Science, Unity Church, and Religious Science are organizations which developed from the New Thought movement, which teach that Infinite Intelligence or God is the sole reality, sickness is the result of the failure to realize this truth, and is accomplished by the affirmation of the oneness of the human race
with the Infinite Intelligence or God. The defines as: "Any system of speculation which bases the knowledge of nature upon that of the divine nature", noting it is used in particular with
reference to Boehme. Oxford English Dictionary theosophy [] edit The three objects The three declared objects of the original Theosophical Society as established by Blavatsky, Judge and Olcott were as follows: There are various sects of this "New Thought," to use another of the names
by which it calls itself; but their agreements are so profound that their differences may be neglected for my present purpose, and I will treat the movement, without apology, as if it were a simple thing. It is a deliberately optimistic scheme
of life, with both a speculative
and a practical side. In its
gradual development during the last quarter of a century, it has taken up into itself a number of contributory elements, and it must now be reckoned with as a genuine religious power. Therefore Theosophy teaches that the immortal ethical life must be lived, and to this end teaches a Heart Doctrine of ethical thought and action as the practice by which the changes spoken of may be made. [] edit Karma Theosophy professes the method for people to free themselves from unconsciously causing negative karma, which has become the cause of suffering of humanity during life, through an emulation of dharma-duty to all that lives. Theosophy teaches, as do many ethical/religious doctrines, that . The point being that a sense or law of rigid justice rules nature, whereby Causes sown (in terms of conscious and unconscious actions) all have their mathematically connected consequences.