Harlem Valley Dutchess
Relocation
Information Welcome to Dutchess County New York! Located about an hour north of New York City, will surprise you with its history, rolling terrain, breathtaking Fall and Spring colors, Hudson River and mountain views, fabulous restaurants, highly regarded colleges and school districts, commuter rail service to and from New York City, farms, horses, recreation areas, biking and hiking trails, and more. Dutchess County As your relocation expert, I can help you become familiar with the area before you even get here! Located an hour outside of St. Louis, the Washington Town and Country Fair in Washington is amongst the largest summer festivals held in the state of Missouri. Held from August 5 through 10, tradition will carry on this year with livestock shows, horticulture displays,
and even motor sport events. Watch out for performances by Huey Lewis and the News and other great names while you’re there, too!thth Pennsylvania Renaissance Faire The is one of the largest fairs held in Pennsylvania on an annual basis. This year’s festival will run every weekend from August 9 through October 26, featuring different weekly themes, majestic entertainment, and traditional faire food and brew. This year the faire has added
some special events, including a Royal Feaste and Tea with the Queen! With the Democrats seizing control of Congress in Tuesday's election, many Republicans are concerned that U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., is poised to become the speaker of the House of Representatives in January. That the concern is about her politics, and not her gender, is a welcome sign of how much things have changed in
recent
decades, albeit slowly. As the first female speaker of the House, Pelosi will be as
close to the U.S. presidency as any woman ever has. The speaker is second in the line of presidential succession, behind the vice president. It's been more than two decades since Geraldine Ferraro was the first and only woman to run on a presidential ticket, when she was the Democratic nominee for vice president. The growing acceptance of women as elected leaders is hard to deny when U.S. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice are both seen as top choices for their party's 2008 presidential nomination. But Pelosi, Clinton and Rice continue to be the exception, rather than the rule. Actually, the U.S. lags other
nations, such as Chile, German,
Liberia and Jamaica, which have all sworn in women as heads of their federal governments, in the past year or so. 7 - Cruger Island (Hudson River National Estuarine Research Reserve) - E, HMF 60 acres on the Hudson River in the Town of Red Hook.  Bay, estuary, tidal marsh, mudflats, tidal swamp, woodlands.  An excellent area for all kinds of birds, with waterfowl and shorebirds most plentiful.  Osprey, Northern Harrier, Marsh Wren, Least Bittern, Virginia Rail.  Best in early spring and late summer; also excellent for observing ducks on the river in late fall.  Directions:  Take NY.  9G north toward Annandale and Tivoli.  Turn left onto CR 103 (Annandale Road) about 5 miles north of the Rhinebeck intersection of US 9 and NY 9G.  Where CR 103 takes a sharp turn to the left, go down Cruger Island Road.  Park your car at one of the state MUA lots (you will pass some Bard College dorm lots; do not park in these). Nora Bredes, director of the Anthony center, said if women can
reach a "critical mass" in office, she believes they can help change politics that are too often focused on personal ambition, instead of serving the public good. But it's up to local political party committees to do a better job recruiting female and, for that matter, minority candidates. Doing so will not only
result in a government that better reflects the community it hopes to represent. It's necessary if these parties hope to remain relevant in an increasingly diverse region, state and country. Please join us for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, January 27th at noon.  Light refreshments will be provided. Individuals with disabilities requiring accommodations at Vassar should contact the Office of Campus Activities at (845) 437-5370. Directions to the Vassar campus are available at . www.vassar.edu/directions Vassar College is a highly selective, coeducational, independent, residential liberal arts college founded in 1861. Dutchess County Tourism is
the officially designated marketing organization for
Dutchess County. DCT is a division of the Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation and is funded by the County of Dutchess. Dutchess County Tourism is dedicated to bringing tourism dollars to area businesses by promoting the region across the country and around the world. It continues to develop new programs to keep Dutchess County in the forefront of visitor destinations, helping to make tourism a leading industry in the county. For more information, visit www.DutchessTourism.com Posted Friday, January 9, 2009 Campus News Just in the nick of time, however, the summer fairs begin rolling into town - aiming to please and entertain the masses!
American
summer fairs are a tradition like no other. Found all over the country, in more
counties than we can count,
fairs feature amusement rides, games, competitions, and enough food to prove that your eyes really are bigger than your stomach. Some travel from city to city, while others are hosted in the same place annually - always bringing the fun to you without the aggravation of a long car ride or the expensive admission fees normally associated with amusement parks. Summer fairs are an incredible destination for individuals and families alike! We’re proud to share some of our favorite upcoming fairs. Blueberry Festival The Blueberry Festival in Austerlitz, New York is entering its 9 year. Held on July 29, you’ll find yourself surrounded by everything blueberry, and then some! Taste blueberry muffins, pancakes, jams, and pies or enter your favorite creation into the Blueberry Recipe Contest.thth Kalamazoo County Fair The will be held on from August 4 through August 9 in Kalamazoo, Michigan! This year the fair features a talent contest, bee keeping classes, chainsaw carvers, and plenty of children’s activities. The 2008 fair will include the first ever Kalamazoo County Fair Queen Pageant - an event you won’t want to miss! Sports and Fitness Welcome to the Dutchess County, New York website, your community on the internet. Here you will find valuable information about Dutchess County, New York, including coupons, restaurants, shopping, hotels, local
businesses, transportation, real estate, public services, dining, arts and entertainment, spas, salons, schools, sports, automotive, banking, shops, healthcare, relocation, travel, tourism, and vacations in Dutchess County, Amenia, Arlington, Beacon, Beekman, Brinckerhoff, Clinton, Crown Heights, Dover Plains, Dover, East Fishkill, Fairview, Fishkill, Haviland, Hillside Lake, Rock City, Hopewell Junction, Hyde Park, La Grange, Milan, Millbrook, Millerton, Myers Corner, North East, Pawling, Pine Plains, Pleasant Valley, Poughkeepsie, Red Hook, Red Oaks Mill, Rhinebeck, Spackenkill, Staatsburg, Stanford, Tivoli, Union Vale, Wappinger, Wappingers Falls
and Washington. Places of interest in Dutchess County, New York include Appalachian Trail, Depot Hill, Old Rhinebeck Aerodome, Dutchess County Airport, Clinton House, Bard College, Culinary Institute of America, Dutchess Community College, Marist College, Ridley-Lowell Business & Technical Institute and Vassar College.   13,863 employees are represented by businesses DCEDC worked with
in 2007 (excluding IBM) $200 million invested by small businesses (employment less than 500). $400 million invested by large businesses (employment over 500) $1.3 million in low-cost loans secured for two industrial expansions $260,000 in grants secured for local businesses , a division of DCEDC, established outstanding benchmarks during 2007. These included:Dutchess County Tourism 115 tourism businesses were assisted 80,000 Travel Guides were distributed to assist visitors to Dutchess County from across the state and around the world Area Airport: Fort Wayne International - 9 miles    24 Hour Front Desk    Room Service    Free Local Calls    Free Parking
   Handicapped Accessible Rooms    Non-smoking Rooms    Indoor Pool    Heated Pool    Meeting Facilities    Business Center Facilities    Laundry/Valet Service    Safe Deposit Box    Air Conditioned Rooms    AM/FM Clock/Radio in Rooms    Coffee Maker in Rooms    Data Ports in Rooms    Hair Dryer In Rooms    Iron/Ironing Board In Rooms    Microwave Oven In Rooms    Refrigerator in Rooms    Voice Mail in Rooms    Cable Television    In Room Movies    Hot Tub on site    Fitness Center on site    Other Features: Elevator, Located in the
Village of
CoventryFeatures and Amenities    Lincoln Museum    Science Central CenterArea Attractions    Great American Grill - on siteNearby Restaurants    Number of Meeting Rooms: 4    Total Capacity of Meeting Rooms: 200    Description of Meeting Rooms: Audio/Visual Equipment AvailableMeeting Facilities    Credit Cards For
Help with the
Cost of Attending a Trade Show, Act Now DCEDC is currently accepting applications for the 2008 Trade Show Assistance Program. Funds for the program are made
available through the generosity of the Dutchess County Industrial Development Agency (DCIDA). The program reimburses qualified manufacturing companies for up to 50% of the direct costs associated with participating in an industry trade show of their choice. The maximum grant award is $4,000 per company or affiliate per year for a domestic trade show and $5,000 for an international
trade show.  Eligible costs include booth and freight costs, airfare, lodging, meals, and marketing related to business development at the show. Contact Melissa Mackey at 845.463.5403 or for more information or to obtain an application. melissa@dcedc.com Applause for Dutchess County For a listing of accolades received during 2007 by Dutchess County from sources including Milken Institute, U.S. About Us Begin your garden and kitchens journey at Locust Grove, The
Samuel B. Morse Historic Site () on Route 9 in Poughkeepsie. The “American Leonardo” was a true Renaissance man - a premier American artist who also worked as a landscape designer, architect, and, of course, inventor of the telegraph and Morse code. www.morsehistoricsite.org The house tour features an extensive collection of china, and the dining room is set for Sunday dinner. See the butler’s pantry and full kitchen, imaging how it was to be on-staff in a bygone day! Of particular interest are the Victorian-style formal and heirloom vegetable gardens. Key to Codes Towns of Union Vale and Beekman.  A driving trip with many stops.  Open
country, swamps, spruce plantings, wooded areas.  Best in spring and fall, with waterfowl on the lakes most plentiful in late fall and early spring.   Directions:  Start in Verbank on NY 82.  Turn southeast on Clove Road (CR 9), stop at Abel's Pond on the left, and continue until you come to a T-intersection.  Go right and makes stops whenever you see birds.  Look for Clove Cemetery on your left and proceed in to Christie Pond, a duck breeding pond. Continue north on Route 9 to Hyde Park where you’ll begin your Roosevelt experience at
the Henry A. Wallace Visitor and Education Center, part of the FDR Presidential Home, Library & Museum ().  Get a glimpse into the world of former President Roosevelt, who always listed his occupation as “tree farmer.” 
www.nps.gov/hofr Also in Hyde Park, make sure you visit the Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site () for a peek at how the richest man in America lived during the “Gilded Age.”  More than 50 local workers were required to cook, clean, and oversee the grounds and farm, where the Vanderbilt’s grew much of their own
food and all the flowers for their lavish arrangements. www.nps.gov/vama Is your mouth watering for a great-tasting meal?  Before checking in for the night, celebrate the region’s rich agricultural bounty at Twist (), a casual American restaurant located in Hyde Park, or Terrapin () in nearby Rhinebeck. 
www.letstwist.com www.terrapinrestaurant.com About DCT | | | | | (C) 2008 Dutchess County Tourism. All rights reserved. Dutchess County Tourism,
3 Neptune Rd., Suite Q-17, Poughkeepsie NY 12601 Tel: 845/463-4000 or 800/445-3131 Advertise with Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Home Ribbon-cutting on January 27 for Dutchess County Tourism Information Center in the Main Building of Vassar College             POUGHKEEPSIE, NY — Dutchess County Tourism and Vassar College are pleased to announce the opening of an official Dutchess County Tourism Information Center in the
historic Main Building of Vassar College. The Tourist Information Center will play a valuable role in the community, helping to create awareness about the county’s many tourism assets for both students and their families, the thousands of annual visitors to Vassar’s beautiful campus, as well as the college's more than 1,000 employees. The brochure racks are full of literature on Dutchess County lodging, arts, historic sites, outdoor spaces, and the center offers a computer terminal linking visitors to tourism information. There's also
information about Vassar's many public facilities and offerings such as the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, the music department's year-round concert series, and the campus itself, a 1,000-acre designated arboretum that's home to more than two hundred species of trees, two buildings on the National Register of Historic Places, and an array of architectural designs. Anthony Center for Women's Leadership at the University of Rochester. The survey focused on representation in county legislatures and city councils in the state's five largest cities. The small number of women serving in elected office is virtually unchanged from the last report in 2002, though Dutchess County fared better than others. Ten of the 25 county legislators in Dutchess are women, the highest percentage in the state, while only seven out of 33 in
Ulster are women. The average for counties outside of New York City is 17 percent. In the mid-Hudson Valley, the female legislators are
just about equally split between Republicans and Democrats, so this problem is not exclusive to one party. There are resources available to help women already in office, or interested in running. The Susan B. Anthony Center is planning a policy summit for women officeholders next spring. contact me Relocation form LET ME HELP YOU MAKE A SMOOTH MOVE! Airports serving our Area: Stewart International
Airport – Newburgh, NY (SWF)
Westchester County Airport – White Plains, NY (HPN) John F. Kennedy International Airport – New York City (JFK) LaGuardia Airport – New York City (LGA) Newark Liberty International Airport – Newark, New Jersey (EWR) Albany International Airport – Albany, New York (ALB) Contact Dutchess County Tourism at to find lodging.  You’ll be pleased by the choices:  bed & breakfasts, hotels, inns, family-friendly motels.  Or and request a copy
of Randy’s Rental and Temporary Housing Brochure. Lodging www.dutchesstourism.com Contact Randy Enjoy a drive from to where you’ll see
our
malls, many restaurants, area landmarks like Locust Grove, The Samuel Morse Historic Site, The Franklin D. Roosevelt Home National Historic Site, The Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site, Marist College, a wonderful liberal arts college located right on the Hudson River and the world-famous Culinary Institute of America. Click to print out my .Get Acquainted with the Area   Today
is: Don't miss the January Contact Breakfast featuring Kent Gardner and his economic forecast for 2009 for Wednesdasy January 21st at 7:30 am at the Poughkeepsie Grand Hotel. This event is generously sponsored by The Chazen Companies. Smart Card Being a member of the Dutchess County Regional Chamber of Commerce comes with many benefits and one of them is discounts on other membersproducts and services. Simply carry your SmartCard, show it at these businesses and receive the discount mentioned below. That it! What a great way to save
money, meet
other Chamber businesses and hink local first!Don have your SmartCard or need a new one? Call 845-454-1700 ext. 1000 and let us know. In the Dutchess County Spotlight Check out the 2008 DCEDC Business Excellence Awards Invitation  Preview the 2008 DCEDC Business Excellence Awards invitation . The shown on this website is for information only. We are accepting by mail only. invitation RSVPs This is the go-to event for Dutchess County’s business community. If you did not receive an invitation last year and want to attend this year, please call Tamara Watson at 845.463.5450 and ask for a “BEA invitation,” stating your name and complete mailing address, or
email your invitation request to: .  tamara@dcedc.com Loan Fund Focuses on “Green” There is now a loan fund for Dutchess County businesses that are planning upgrades and improvements that will reduce their energy consumption and/or for utilizing alternative energy. Known as the , the “green” fund can be accessed through The Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation (DCEDC).Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) See News and Events for details. . . .  2007 saw the initiation of a new, highly successful program that not only supports local tourism but also supports local agriculture, the . The program brings residents of New York City to Dutchess County for a day to visit farms and rural communities (link).Dutchess County Farm Fresh Agritourism program Bed tax revenue to Dutchess County brought in an estimated $2 million
DCEDC exists to attract, retain, and
expand for-profit and
not-for-profit business in Dutchess County. The offers information and
highlights of DCEDC
accomplishments and activities in areas relating to: new development projects, External Marketing Council, Poughkeepsie/Dutchess Empire Zone, DCEDC Business Development Program, Dutchess County Industrial
Development Agency, Dutchess County Tourism, and the
2007 Business Excellence Awards celebration. 2007 DCEDC Annual Report The Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation (DCEDC) Is Celebrating Its 30th Anniversary in 2008 Yes! We hear the sound of well-earned applause. During three exciting decades that included periods of economic sea change both regionally and nationally,DCEDC has grown to be widely recognized as one of the top economic development groups in the United States. Using the Internet to book a room for your traveling or vacations has become one of the biggest uses of the Internet. Be sure to visit our new feature. You can find a room in your destination town... or look for one up to 30 miles
away. In all 50 states. It's easy. It's secure. ! Book a Room Book a Room Click here for the NY Visitors Network lodging members from across the state. SEARCH Searching our site is as easy as ABC. where you will be able to locate things by topic, geography, category, etc. It really is easy! Visit our Search Page NY REAL ESTATE