On the town directory page
select the category of business
you would like to view in that town.
You will find
webpages from all of your local restaurant's with full delivery menus, local services, local news, retailers, contractor's, government links and more. Simply choose a category or scroll
down to view the complete listing. You may also
click
on any
business logo
throughout the directory to go directly
to their website. Child
Pornography on the Internet This
section will provide information
about the
growing problem of child
pornography, how to help protect children from it, how
to fight it, and symptoms of victims to watch for. It provides an overview of what laws have been passed and what the current status of these laws are, and it offers several
resource sites to help you educate
yourself and your students on how to stay safe online. Inappropriate contact with outside Internet users is a growing concern among teachers who use Internet-based communications such as
online chatting, instant messaging and email. This
addendum discusses the
latest
issues relating to this topic and provides useful tips and
resources for teachers who are considering using these technologies for
their
classroom instruction. Pedophilia on the
Internet If you do not have any
kind of antivirus software installed on your system, and
if
you do,
and it is out of date, get some now before it is to late. Do not think it will not happen to you because it will. Why do you need
ani-virus software? Protects
your
computers from virus', worm and
trogon horses attacks
Protects your computer from sending out virus', worms and
trogon horses.   TechBlog The
provides a
comprehensive overview about "In the Wild" computer
viruses.
The WildList
is a list of
computer viruses found in the
wild and is brought up to date on a monthly
basis. More than 70 qualified
volunteers
around the world report about the
latest
threats and virus incidents. Tjark Auerbach, the CEO and
founder of Avira GmbH is a member and active reporter since February 2000. Avira virus lab provides the latest descriptions for
most of the threats listed on
the
organization's website. Please
find the latest monthly additions as well as the full
Wildlist
below.
If
you
have further
questions what exactly the WildList
is you may have a look at the FAQ
section on Organization's website: If you have already
been infected
we can provide a cleansing service
and restore systems to normal operation at a cost of +
VAT.£45 per hour If you are interested in one of our consultants calling you to discuss anti virus software or virus issues, then please call us on 0777 1714143 or fill out the. contact
form     What is a computer virus? A
computer virus is a computer program that places copies of itself in other programs on your system or somehow manipulates other files on your system, with the express purpose of causing
mischief or
damage. A virus is a small piece of software designed to operate on your
computer without your knowledge or consent.  Most
viruses are benign - they cause no
damage other than annoying the
operator.  Some viruses cause
minor damage or embarrassment.  A few of the worst
can
destroy a computer, erase files or
disk drives,
or send sensitive data to outsiders
without your knowledge. Viruses
are spread through infected emails, documents and programs. 
A virus MUST be
executed
to
be "triggered".  Sometimes this is as simple as running
an attachment to an email message.  Some of the newer
viruses
can be
inserted into your system via HTML email messages. Software Piracy The presence of software in our schools is becoming more prevalent. This section will give you a definitive resource for
teachers and administrators who are
understandably overwhelmed by the variety of software
licenses
out there. Look here for more
information on how to maintain and purchase the most
useful license for your school.
Publish date: 20 Jun 2008
         Publish date: 20 Jun 2008          Publish
date: 12 Jan 2007          Publish date: 18 Dec 2006
         Publish date: 12 Nov 2006          Publish date:
07 Oct 2006          Publish date: 11 Sep 2006         
Publish date: 11 Aug 2006         
Publish date: 07 Jul 2006          Publish date: 07 Jun
2006          Publish date: 11
May 2006          Publish date: 14 Apr
2006          Publish date: 13 Mar 2006
         Publish
date: 07 Feb
2006          Publish date: 12
Jan 2006 They can allow hackers to remotely control your
system (this is a "Trojan Horse") and some of them even destroy data or format your hard drive. All of them are undesirable and all
of them must be stopped before
they do any damage or replicate themselves. And, in a
nutshell, that's why you need to
install
anti-virus software and why you must keep the virus
definitions up to date. Descriptions of
Recent Common Viruses SirCam Additional Information Backing
Up Your stuff - Part 1 Backups are
extremely critical to keep your system secure.
If your system is damaged
by a virus or
an intruder you
have
a way to recover. Remember, however, that you must think
through
and test your
scheme.  Backing up your system
is an essential part of
your security scheme If you run Outlook and you want to protect yourself,
you should install the Outlook security patch. Outlook Security Patch You need antivirus protection for your computer. Norton Antivirus is by far and away the best solution
for the desktop.
Products - Norton Antivirus
ZoneAlarm
Pro is quite
possibly the best firewall product for personal home
use that currently exists. Highly recommended.
Products
- ZoneAlarm
Pro Computer Virus Alerts & Advisories Free
Computer Virus Scan News Business SPENCO ®
Footcare Products - NEOS Overshoe Donate Your Car, Boat
or Real Estate and help Children's Charities today.Cars for Kids Program A
comprehensive directory of
U.S. Military Veteran owned
businesses. Popular Sites
Connecticuts finest Court Reporters Kentucky Business Directory Anyone can become a victim of computer fraud.  It is a threat to anyone that uses the Internet.  Educators can become aware
of how to teach students not to believe everything they
find on the
Internet and make critical
choices about what information they give out about
themselves. 
Hacking Hacking is an act by people who have an extensive knowledge about how programmable systems work.  Hacking is not considered a bad thing by all crowds.  Educators could
help potential hackers avoid getting into trouble by having open discussions about computer ethics.  Find out more information
about
hacking. Sales -
Use
- Transaction
Tax Consultants Sales and
Use Tax Consultants Olivier & Associates LLC is a highly
specialized
team of nationally
recognized
accountants, attorneys and former state tax
auditors who understand Sales, Use & Transaction Tax law
from both sides of the table.
Our
clients range
from
businesses doing under $250,000
annually
to Fortune 1000 companies with
revenues in the billions. Contact Us
Today Tel: 1-888-466-2829 Find an apartment on Rent.com, we'll send you when you report your lease.$100 Looking for apartments?
Rent.com has millions of apartments for rent! To see all
of our apartment rentals, start
searching Rent.com
today. I cannot stress this
enough.  There are many people in the
world who do not seem to have enough to do, are angry, experimenting or
plain just don't care.  These people create viruses and unleash them to the world. This is very important also - your job is not
finished just because you've installed
anti-virus software. You must
update the virus definitions (and
occasionally the software)
as new viruses come out all of the time.