Many of
the people that you will assist in the beginning of your career will be strictly DJs. They may not even have cordless microphones. Don not emulate these people,
but do learn from them. Any investment that you make in training yourself to be a
more effective entertainer and party motivator will be money
well spent. Greg has been involved in over 1000 events in his career!  He brings an energy and organization to the team that lets you know in a hurry your event is important! e-mail Greg:  greg@bugbeesdjplus.com Greg Bugbee - DJ associate since 2003! Wedding Specialist!  Josh brings a very personable feeling to your special day! Josh Frerich - DJ associate since 2001! Miranda specializes in school dances and fraternity/sorority type events! There are .by your mentor, and receive your contracts from Entertainment Connection's corporate office, and then, only after you “accept” our mentor.  real radio stationwhere you live  keep your current job   no application fees  There iswe send you on.no charge for the mentor interview No money
is due until you'reformally accepted
WHAT’S THE NEXT STEP? THAT’S EASY!ick up the phone and give us a call, toll free, at (Monday thru Friday 9:00AM to 5:00PM PST) or click on the apply now button and fill in our application form.The sooner you apply, the sooner we can get you onto the radio station and on your way to an exciting career in the radio business. 
P1-800-755-7597  Site Map MEET OUR RADIO DJ SCHOOLS STUDENTS voiceover and dj schools alternative - sports broadcasting
school alternative news and traffic schools alternatives - radio promotions schools alternatives Radio Connection DJ School student, Alan talks about how if you apply yourself, you will find this course opens doors for you. Student, Brian says the level of experience he received from us far exceeded what he would have received from a radio school. (Don't forget to make copies of all your paper work!!!) Now you're in business! Congratulations! I've seen similar publications that used several chapters to explain what has been explained in a few short paragraphs here. It may be short, but don't doubt its importance. Follow these steps and get ready to use your momentum. With today’s technology, it is even possible to put video clips of your DJ service in action on the Internet. Now clients can view them at their home 24 hours a day 7 days a week. Imagine, you’re sleeping and someone is watching you do wedding introductions in another state. The next day they call you and book you. Bands like Kiss and Led Zeppelin dominated the rock side of this decade, and became legendary. Though most of this music isn't to danceable, you still should have a good knowledge of it, and incorporate it into your
collection. The disco era picked up around
the mid to late 70’s and bands like the Bee Gees and KC and The Sunshine Band made some incredibly popular and danceable music. Leave a resume with your current phone number and email, you may get a phone call for an interview later. Your training at radio broadcasting schools gives you an advantage over traditional colleges. Tags: , , Radio Broadcast Jobs radio broadcasting schools Radio Jobs This entry was posted on January 16, 2009 at 8:45 am
and is filed under , .  Tune Tyme will help you with music for your wedding and
furnish you with a wedding
packet
with lists of popular music for , , , , ,COUPLES FIRST
DANCEFATHER/DAUGHTER DANCE,   MOTHER/SON DANCEFAMILY DANCESWEDDING PARTY DANCEGARDER/BOUQUETLAST
DANCE, LOVE SONGS.   2.    Is the person going to be dressed in the proper attire?     Will your DJ show up at your wedding in blue jeans?  It is very important that your DJ show up wearing the proper attire for the occasion.  After all he / she will be the one up front during most of the event. Be willing to be trained on every aspect of the business, including but not limited to: client interviews, customer service standards, equipment setup and maintenance, and
performance training; as well as shadowing our current DJs on weekend weddings. The duration of training will be based on DJ's level of experience and skill, but will be a minimum of six months regardless of experience. Place an order (800) 775-3472 or visit their site. CD's, remix compilations, DVD's and practically any type of music available through The Source. Please use member code: ADJA10 when checking out.10% off all CD's, Remixes and Music DVD's for all ADJA members! THE SOURCE http://www.thesourceformusic.com The ADJA is working to build it's membership so we may advertise in magazines, newspapers and online. No matter where you live you can improve your DJ performance through our expert instruction, studying, and
practice. Courses include our audio, presentation, and video-based training.Global DJ Mix Academy Certificate Program in Disc Jockeying America's Only Comprehensive DJ Educational Program Become a better DJ by earning your Certificate in DJ'ing! This credential is awarded to students who successfully complete the following: Professional in appearance, elocution and demeanor Able to communicate and connect well with people Passionate about a wide variety of music Technical expertise and the ability to quickly identify and resolve issues with equipment Ambitious, motivated, and takes pride in his/her
work Committed to making a career of
deejaying and being the "best in the business" Sound equipment
stores sell headphones, disc players, turntables, club mixers, speaker systems, and amplifiers. Some stores also offer disc jockey packages, combining two or more of these equipments in one unit. Disc jockeys also need extensive lighting and visual equipment such as lasers, disco lights, and smoke machines. For alternative entertainment, disc jockeys also buy jukebox and karaoke machines for hire. (Phone 09 3793819) Music and Audio Institute of New Zealand - Located in the heart of San Francisco, provides personalized instruction for those who want to master the art of DJing and Electronic Music
Production. Norcal DJ and
Music Production Academy - Professional Industry training for DJs and MC's in Australia. - Membership information, DJ profiles, and charts. Danish Country DJs Association - Trade association formed to meet the needs of professional mobile DJs, nightclub DJs, and KJs. Also assists party planners and brides. List of benefits, application form, and DJ listings. National Association of Mobile Entertainers - Includes membership criteria, upcoming events, profiles, and advice. Access to influential broadcasters - producers and directors - and top executives. Only then, will you be able to increase your chances for success. Resumes and demo tapes ALONE don't work anymore. Whether your goal is to become a local DJ, nationally known talk show host, or make it
to the sidelines of the Super Bowl - - an
insiders advantage...you need an advantage The New York State Disc Jockey Association (N.Y.S.D.J.A.) is a New York based organization of Professional Disc Jockey and Karaoke Companies who are concerned with maintaining a high standard of quality in performance and business ethics to ensure that the consumer receives the best music service for their function. This site provides helpful information both for party planners, association members and prospective members.
Regardless of the course you choose, Radio Connection's tuition is $6,450.00.  This covers your tuition, books and supplies--everything you need to take and finish our radio course. Of course.  We accept the following cards: For instance, Radio Connection offers Full Financial Aid Packages from Sallie Mae, the nation's leading lender for Higher Education loans.  No Down Payment.  Low Interest Rates (vary according to your credit) Up to 15 Years
to Pay.  Borrow an Additional 60% for living expenses or equipment purchases. Call as many as possible and compare their prices. We will get more heavily into
printing later on in the book. Right now
we are talking about a proper business image. And a proper, professional business consists of a good, quality logo to go with the business name. Check with a graphics designer or your local print shop. Further images/video are available to users. 1 Also known as: Introduction Disc jockeys (DJs) are performers who introduce and play music for an audience. They work in pubs and clubs, mobile discos and radio. Their job includes talking to the audience as well as operating technical equipment. Back to Top Work Activities Disc jockeys (DJs) are performers who present and play music to a particular audience. With Radio Connection, you will be paired with your own personal mentor, a sportscaster who is already doing the job you want to get into.  He will
teach you what the job is really about by exposing you to real world, sports broadcasting events.  Soon, you'll be reporting live from the dugouts and benches as the coaches and players develop strategy that often determines the vital lose or win situation. This is only one of many career assessment tools available through bookstores, the Web, and Oakland Community College. To truly get a full understanding of how to best plan the perfect career for you, make an appointment at a Career Planning Center at one of OCC's campuses. Call (248)341-2346. What the letters mean Each of these letters represents a personal interest category. The columns you have the most check marks in show where your interests are the strongest. According               to DJ
Timothy
              Heit ,               "."because hearing is normally around 4 kHz, you want to               lower that frequency (and perhaps the frequencies near it) on               the equalizer. This creates a comfortable listening environment               (i.e., the customers can hear one another). While desirable,               higher frequencies, such as tweeters, can damage hearing. However,               low-end bass frequencies are not as damaging - it tends to cause               listening fatigue instead Membership benefits and standards, as well as DJ listings. Online Disc Jockey
Association - Lists companies that have PAT tested equipment.
PAT Validator
- Public liability insurance validation for mobile djs. PLI Validator - Mobile disco, DJ and discotheque association in the south east of England (Sussex, Kent, Surrey, London and Essex). Hire a member for your occasion or join the organisation. Site Map The radio program director is responsible for the on-air product of the station.  The program director is the leader of the station,  The put together the talent and program schedules, designing the sound and feel of the station.  The program director oversees music, promotions, and any production that goes on-air as well as work with sales and marketing to improve the radio station's image and increase its market share. Unless you desire to be a radio station accountant, a college degree or diploma is not a job prerequisite.  Degrees and diplomas carry little, if any, weight when it comes to getting
hired in the Radio or Broadcasting Business.  Unfortunately, the goal of most Radio Schools and Broadcasting Schools is to grant you a diploma.  With The Radio Connection, the goal is always to get you hired.  We do this by concentrating on what's necessary for you to learn to make yourself attractive to those that do the hiring in the radio and broadcasting Industries.  The Radio Connection believes the best way to learn a job is to do the job. Radio Connection works by hooking you up with your personal, working, on-air radio DJ or personality to guide you through the things you need to know to be able to have your own radio show.  The overwhelming majority of our DJ graduates go on to have successful broadcast careers behind the mic as on-air radio
talent.  Think of it, you can be entertaining, playing the hits, announcing titles and artists, and using your personality to communicate with an audience.  But that is only part of the job. "The computers are always full before the paper comes out - everybody's working hard, trying to make their articles sound like something they themselves would want to read," states Freshman Sunshine Glover. "It is a fun class and nothing beats the feeling of hearing from one of your peers that 'your article was great!'," Senior Chris Davis claims. Help the MCs create energy with our events. May help
in games, teach dances, or interact with guests. Enthusiasm is a must.Party Motivators: Usually start with us as DJs. These performers have terrific mic skills and really guide our event teams. This is also our highest paid position.MCs: For corporate events and Bar Mitzvahs. Looking for people with great interacting skills as well as great moves to impress the guests.Dancers: We want you and your family to feel comfortable when working with us at The Radio Connection Audio School Alternative. For this reason we have made the Vice President and the President of our school available to you and your family.   AFTER YOU HAVE SPOKEN WITH AN ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR AND IF YOU HAVE BEEN APPROVED for PLACEMENT, if you or your family should have any additional questions about our program, please feel free to call us at and ask to speak to the office of The Vice President. We are always looking for reliable, friendly, outgoing and enthusiastic individuals with a positive attitude, neat appearance and excellent written and oral communication skills.  If you fit this description, give us a call.  Prior DJ experience is not necessary, as it is easier to train someone from the start than eliminate any bad
habits.  We take a unique approach to our work and will provide adequate instruction, training and experience to an applicant with the right qualifications and enthusiasm.  I became involved with FAME because I first and foremost wanted to do everything I can as an industry leader to support educational opportunities offered to upcoming DJs. The Mobile Entertainment Industry has been very good to me and this is my chance to give something back to the DJs that will come along in the future. The Business Of RadioSection 10: Structure within the   radio station Station management The program director Sales department Selling time The account executive Ratings Station surveys Music research The radio code Understanding and using radio   audience estimates Arbitron radio market report Advertising agencies Co-op sales Promotions Recording Ratings Geographical areas Small and major market   research Broadcasting GlossarySection 11: Terms used In radio and TV nbsp; Use legal forms of music and performance materials in the conduct of my entertainment services. nbsp; Be honest and realistic conveying talent, abilities, and level of services to my clients. nbsp; Deliver products and services to my clients,
as promised, to the best of my abilities. nbsp; Use a written contract clearly stating all charges, services, products, performance expectations and other essential information. Tired of looking like your competition? Click this link and go where the professionals in our industry go Website Hosting for $29 per month or $249 per year if you use the following promo codes: FAME29 (for monthly) FAME249 (for yearly ) BRUCE KESLAR My Friend and Colleague, you will be missed. And is a great book that looks at radios bright future. Listening In Making Waves Tags: , be on air radio dj This entry was posted
on December 12, 2008 at 10:32 pm and is filed under ,
. You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from your own site. Become a Disc Jockey Radio Disc Jockeys RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback Looking for charismatic, hip, well groomed fun people with a bit of fearlessness for Bay Area Disc Jockey Entertainment Company that performs at everything from Corporate Events to Weddings and Bar Mitzvahs. NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED as we can train the right individuals. Must have Saturday availability, be located in or around east bay (we are located in Walnut Creek), reliable vehicle and truly be outgoing and not afraid of being on stage. Start training on a real radio station today for little or NO MONEY DOWN. Go to radio and broadcast school alternative at Radio Connection for as low at $10 a month. Borrow the full tuition amount for Radio Connection Radio School  Alternative ($6450)
plus up to 60% more ($3870) for living expenses and/or equipment purchases. Sallie Mae is the nation's leading provider of school loans to students world-wide. Disc Jockey must also be verbally expressive. Radio disc jockeys play music over the radio. Club DJs mix and play music in a club. Enjoyed this post? Subscribe via . Thanks for visiting! 2 Comments RSS Written by admin on Jun 1st, 2008 | Filed under: Artistic careers This is the career profile and information for the Disc Jockey. Now don't let all this talk of buying equipment scare you. You don't need to buy anything yet. Or ever for that matter. There are several people that have started out in this business who didn't even have a
typewriter in the beginning. You can easily begin without owning any office equipment. The Radio Connection will also teach you all the behind the scenes activities a DJ needs to be proficient at as the job is more than just talking on the radio. Every day, disc jockeys must prepare for the radio show. Many disc jockeys spend more time preparing for their show than they do on-air.  A good DJ will write or edit their scripts to read on air. Musical knowledge of all eras will be an integral part of your success as a mobile entertainer. It is important to have music from the 40's through the 90's. There
are tons of music lists and song tips on this site, so I will not get into specific songs here. 1940'sThe 40's are known as the "Big Band" era or the "Swing" Era. This type of music is extermely popular at 25th. The following is a good wire package to have. It will cover you in most cases. 6 25' 1/4"-1/4" heavy duty speaker wires (If
your power amplifier accepts banana connections, you may want to have 2 banana to 1/4" wires also). 4 1/4"-1/4" wire connectors. RCA Male to 1/4" audio wires. (6 ft. mixer to amp) 1/4"-1/4" shielded wires (3 ft. wireless to mixer) RCA male to RCA male stereo wires (cd/cassette to mixer) Since there is a difference between a private party and a wedding celebration, Dance Jammers has a professional DJ for both types. For the wedding, many of our
references refer to us as the "" because of our focus on entertainment designed specifically for the wedding. Because of
the experience we learned on the
radio, we have first hand knowledge of what is expected by a Professional "" that will add to the fun and excitement of your celebration. Eventually               these club jocks got slots on the radio and the first "mix-shows"               emerged (such as Chicago's Hot Mix 5 on WBMX-FM). As a result,               Club DJ music and skills such as beat mixing were exposed to               the masses.dance Perhaps the               most significant development in the evolution of DJ equipment               occurred when Technics released the "direct-drive"               SL-1200 in 1974, and the improved SL-1200MK2 Turntable in 1978-79.