This resort runs the gamut from the exciting life
of a 24-hour casino on property to the
relaxation of a 35,000 square foot spa. Gay and lesbian vacationers can feel welcomed and comfortable in either environment. Red Rock
Casino, Resort & Spa After dining in the Feast Buffet, we then headed back to the Strip to and the
Jubilee Theater. Here we were treated to a taste of “old Las Vegas”. The long-running revue, !, contains entertainment and visuals for everyone. The entertainment acts range from acrobats to Cirque Du Soleil type performances. And of course there are chorus girls and chorus boys galore! But you don’t
always have to leave the property for fun. The Voodoo Lounge at the top of the Masquerade Tower provides you an awesome
view of the entire strip, the unique masquerade
show in the sky provides you the opportunity to be a part of the entertainment, and then there are the world-famous ... enough said. The Falls Golf Club, designed by Tom Weiskopf, serves up traditional desert golf for the front nine and a dramatic elevation change with breathtaking mountain views
for the back nine. The Ritz-Carlton. Lace up your hiking boots and head for Red Rock Canyon where red sandstone and gray limestone layers create magnificent natural sand art and the hiking is at its best. " Two-night stay in an executive suite for the bride and groom " Luxury sedan transfer to and from the courthouse " Luxury sedan transfer from and to McCarran International Airport " Wedding dinner for two in Medici Caf & Terrace, offering Italian cuisine, seasonal six course tasting menu with wine pairing " Wedding cake for two   " A dedicated Ritz-Carlton Wedding Manager will coordinate all services directed from the hotel and serve as your witness The Presidential Suite Ceremony The Presidential Suite Ceremony package includes: " Your wedding ceremony performed in our most exquisite suite with breathtaking views of Lake Las Vegas " A minister or rabbi to perform the ceremony " Two columns with floral vases for ceremony altar " Rose petals to
form
the wedding aisle  " One night stay in the Presidential Suite for the bride and groom " A dedicated Ritz-Carlton wedding manager who will
coordinate all services directed through The Ritz-Carlton The White Sand Beach Ceremony    (show details)  (hide details) The White Sand Beach Ceremony package includes: " Your wedding ceremony performed at the beautiful semi-secluded White Sand Beach surrounded by a sparkling waterfall overlooking Lake Las Vegas " A minister or rabbi to perform for
the ceremony With gambling opportunities in areas called The Pleasure Pit
and The Playing Field, or enjoying refreshments in places such as the Heart Bar or the Living Room, you get the idea that playing in Planet Hollywood can definitely support the
saying of Then if and when you have had enough of the party, just steps away is the wonderment of the Miracle Mile Shops. (2 person minimum, 20 person maximum)    Be married in a remarkable setting, on a beautiful, semi-secluded white sand beach surrounded by a sparkling waterfall overlooking Lake Las Vegas and our breathtaking PonteVecchio Bridge. (2 guest minimum, 50 guest maximum)    Host your
enchanting nuptials on an
intimately private terrace with a backdrop view of a Tuscan-themed village. This is the first such show staged in Las Vegas, which of course has set the standard for the many to come, including the most popular gay and lesbian attended show – .
Unfortunately,
that show was on hiatus.Treasure IslandMystereZumanity Tomorrow the
group was heading out to the suburbs. Is
there gay-friendly life off the Strip? Check back tomorrow as the travels
continue! DAY #2 This morning we left the strip to see yet another reason to visit the Las Vegas area for vacation,
and that is Lake Las Vegas.
Located about 30
minutes away from the hubbub of the strip, this oasis is the perfect destination for when you want to get away from it all, but not too far. Planet Hollywood “What goes on in Vegas….”. and was our next stop. Now both of these outstanding properties
have long been popular gay and lesbian destinations when planning a trip to Las Vegas. The property is spacious and beautiful as well as
unique, with basically, THE Hotel located within the Mandalay. As if on cue to demonstrate what truly
gay-friendly
properties these are, as we were touring the facility and turned a corner, we literally almost ran into two guys, arm in arm coming the other way. Once the rest stop for travelers along the Spanish Trail, Lake Las Vegas now offers the tops in entertainment, dining and shopping. Nearby MonteLago Village, with its picturesque, Mediterranean-themed village, offers a fantastic array of shops. Nestled among the winding cobblestone streets are one-of-a-kind
shops and galleries. No matter what your culinary preference, you'll be able to satisfy your cravings in this
casually elegant atmosphere. The background music provided by an enthusiastic DJ, the outside sights from the balcony or through the glass walls, combined with the sights
inhabiting the lounge itself inside – at the bar, on the dance floor or in the private “bottle only” areas were a joy
to watch.MIX at THE Hotel First stop, , a levi/leather neighborhood bar located in a strip mall. It’s a comfortable place with pool tables and old saloon type interior, with an older crowd. On the other end of the spectrum was the second stop, Again, located in a strip mall, but back in the corner
of the center,
and much darker,
with a younger more partying crowd and no big concern about the décor. However, a fun time was had by all.BuffaloThe Eagle. Let’s leave it at that... DAY #3 Our last full day of site visits began in a very different way. All teas are served with four kinds of tea
sandwiches, an assortment of desserts and freshly baked scones with mascarpone cream, lemon
curd, jams and marmalades. Prices range from $40 to $48 for adults or $25 to $32 for children.   Every Saturday and Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m.   Valentines Family Celebration includes:
Resort-view accommodations for one night Three-course dinner for two American Breakfast for two adults and two children Additionally, the Florentine Gardens lend another romantic aura, or perhaps it is a couples massage in the Ritz-Carlton Spa after an active day of sports
activities. Again, you are not accosted by the casino environment, but if you don’t want to take the trip back into the Strip for a night out, you can walk next door to MonteLago Village. This Village, accessible from both the Loews and the
Ritz-Carlton, is an enclave of restaurants, fine shops and a sparkling casino. The Ritz-Carlton was kind enough to provide luncheon for us, so once again we can
attest to the very fine cuisine available for you here too The peacefulness of this property
surrounds you, and it is part of what they mean when they say: Loews’s Lake Las Vegas “What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas. What happens at Lake Las Vegas, stays with you forever.” The 320-acre lake is right out the back of the hotel, complete with a sandy beach. Of course you
can also make use of either of the two pools. If you don’t want to relax then take advantage of the volleyball, tennis, paddle tennis, basketball and of course two championship golf courses from which to choose. When you are done relax in the beautiful Spa Moulay or experience some of the fine dining right on property. " Your wedding ceremony performed in the , a fairytale like manicured garden and cobblestone courtyard setting Florentine " A minister or rabbi to perform your wedding ceremony " Luminous, white chiffon canopy " Various heights of hurricane candles to be placed in front of the canopy in two separate clusters or surround and enhance the outdoor fireplace " Rose petals to form the wedding aisle  " Harpist to perform for the ceremony " One wireless microphone for the minister Package is based on
availability and must be booked in advance to ensure availability of Ritz Kids session and pastry chef. Packages may not be combined with any other offer and are subject to availability. Packages are not applicable
to groups of 10 or more rooms. Medici Caf & Terrace offers a special Valentines Day menu on Saturday, February 14, 2009, including a sumptuous chocolate dessert from renowned pastry chef Chris Hanmer.
Priced at $70 per person, this delectable fixed menu features a choice of such main selections as beef tenderloin with short rib cannelloni, butter-poached
lobster with chanterelle mushrooms, and roasted chicken breast complemented by black truffles, artichokes and potato souffl . After leaving The Riviera we had been scheduled to return to Paris to rest a bit before dinner. However, our wonderful Las
Vegas hostess, Mya, had arranged a surprise for all of us, especially two of the guys in our group, who happen to be partners celebrating 13 years together. Our surprise stop
was at the This venue is not only the only
gay-owned and operated Wedding Chapel in Nevada, but is also the home of the themed wedding. With over 20 different types of wedding themes available, today we got to witness the vow renewals of our friends performed by none other, than Elvis! The PonteVecchio Park Ceremony    (show details)  (hide details) The PonteVecchio Park Ceremony
package includes: " Your wedding ceremony performed at a lakeside gazebo setting adjacent to the PonteVecchio Pavilion with a back drop of the PonteVecchio " A minister or
rabbi to perform your wedding ceremony
" Beautiful, fresh floral spray to accentuate gazebo (75 guest minimum, 150 guest maximum)    Host your charming outdoor wedding in a fairytale-like manicured garden and cobblestone courtyard
setting. (51 guest minimum, 200 guest maximum) Short, but Sweet Wedding Experience The Short, but Sweet Wedding Experience includes: " Your wedding ceremony performed at a beautiful outdoor wedding location " A minister or rabbi to perform your wedding ceremony "
Traditional bridal bouquet and grooms boutonni re Celebrity Coaches provided airport
transfers for each participant to the host
property, the Paris Hotel. The is well-known in the gay and lesbian community as a great supporter and one that is actively marketing to the gay and lesbian vacationer with some very creative advertising. The group met each other for the first time at 12:30pm when they boarded their transportation to the Luxor Hotel for lunch and a site visit. Paris Hotel Anticipate the possibilities that each new day brings. Fill your days and nights with excursions, themed events, fine dining and more. Indulge in as much or as little as you please. The choice is yours.   NEW YEARS DAY AT THE
MEDICI CAF & TERRACE January 1, 2009, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Sleep in and welcome 2009 with la carte breakfast or a breakfast buffet with Bloody Mary station. The next stop on our tour this day was about as far from the glitz of Liberace and the Strip that you could get. This fam also included the opportunity for us to do a little “voluntourism”. This is a concept that has been catching on quite a lot lately. The Tuscany
Courtyard Ceremony The Tuscany Courtyard Ceremony package includes: " Your wedding performed in the intimately private courtyard with a
backdrop of the Tuscan-themed MonteLago Village " A minister or rabbi to perform your wedding ceremony " Chiffon paneling on the central railing of the courtyard " Two columns with large floral vases to create the ceremony alter " Rose petals to form the wedding aisle  " Two clusters of hurricane candles in varying heights To learn even more about the gay and lesbian life of Las Vegas, we were able to spend a few hours at the newly opened home of the
non-profit organization: This LGBT Community Center had just recently opened so we were able
to lend a hand in sprucing up the facility by vacuuming, window washing and mirror cleaning as well as assist in dividing out donations in the food bank and sort the recyclables so they
could be taken in to raise funds. The result
was not only helpful to this valuable agency, but was certainly
valuable to all of us to be able to give back to
our community. Keep an eye on this website for more detailsFOCUS in Southern Nevada – Compassionate and Caring HIV
AIDS Services. This day
marked another first for Travel Impressions. Along with
the Las Vegas Convention & Visitors Authority (LVCVA) TI hosted it’s first ever LGBT FAM Trip. The three day trip was comprised of thirteen travel agents representing twelve different agencies from all over the country, along with the LVCVA host, Mya Reyes and the TI host,
Keith Hickman. The Luxor, like other properties in the city, has been remodeling away from a specific theme. The Luxor now is becoming more sleek, trendy and adult-friendly in appearance. Evidence of this is the creation of in-house clubs such as Liquidity and the addition of their resident show with the popular illusionist, Chris Angel. The
great reputation
of the Spa at the Luxor still remains. The Luxor Next it was on to the . Although off of the “Strip”, the Rio is a gay-friendly property worth looking into. First, it’s important to know that the Rio
is a Suite Hotel. Participants consistently describe the ABX meetings as worthwhile and a huge success. To meet increased member requests to attend, the 2006 Distribution Summit will include even more ABX meetings. To find out more about
the AWMA Summit & Business Exchange, visit . Manufacturers and distributors interested in participating in the ABX portion of
the 2006 Summit should contact AWMAs at (800) 482-2962, extension 642 or . Instead we were given an outstanding preview of the very exciting , currently under construction. This was accomplished in their Preview Center across the street from the actual construction.
This mega property is going to be quite a spectacular gay-friendly addition to the
Strip.Fontainebleu Las Vegas We left the
Preview Center and headed up the Strip to very popular . As the name suggests, this is still Las Vegas where the casino is one of the favorite places for visitors. Before you can say, "Hit me!" a quick trip down the road and you'll be on the Las Vegas
Strip where the casino action never stops, the lights are bright and the world-class entertainment beckons. Or take a short walk across the bridge to the Casino MonteLago, the perfect combination of the intimacy of the resort and the fun of the Strip. Lake Las Vegas, framed
by mountains with a jewel of a lake, is an unspoiled masterpiece. The clubs of Las Vegas are mixed gay men and lesbians with lesbian nights on certain nights.Piranha Nightclub8 &frac12; Ultra LoungeGipsy Our last stop was at the club billed as the only gay club on the Strip, . This facility does have a
cover charge and the crowd changes from time to time. The facility also doubles as a theater for stage shows sometimes. There are VIP areas, a dance floor and large bar areas to accommodate a good number of revelers. Carved out of
rough-hewn hills and desert wash, Lake Las Vegas is
the latest gathering spot along a desert water supply that was used as
an ancient trade route by Native Americans, a
rest stop for travelers along the Spanish Trail and as farmland by early
Nevada settlers. Just 17 miles from the famed Las Vegas strip,
this lake community has become a welcoming oasis where boat masts sway in a marina, shops and restaurants dot the shoreline and dwellings washed in the sun-drenched colors of the
Mediterranean create panoramic views for guests of all ages. The panoramic view from the wall-to-wall,
floor-to-ceiling windows, whether the golf course or the Strip, was magnificent. Every bit of the décor was planned to
compliment the next, and what a better place to be hosted for our final dinner together than the
casually elegant restaurant. The is located in a great spot to dine before or after you take in the Wynn show, WynnStrattaStrattaLe Reve. After dinner it was back to the Paris, to change into “clubbing clothes”. However, our next stop was not another hotel site to visit, but
one of the most fascinating attractions to visit when
not gambling or sunning. is a fascinating tribute to one of the early gay entertainment icons, the very talented pianist and entertainment, Liberace. The museum
houses his collections of rare and antique pianos, classic cars, famous sequined, bejeweled costume wardrobe, glittering stage jewelry, rare antiques as well as his private
papers and memorabilia. This stop was a totally unexpected joy for all of us. The information and the man is fascinating and how can you go wrong with all that “bling”! We were even treated here to a great preview of a show that their
in-house pianist, Philip Fortenberry, does – be sure to try to catch that. The course, fully funded by The Hershey Company, is designed to train sales managers and other
sales professionals from convenience distribution firms. Doug MacKay, president of The Glen Douglas Group, Buena Vista,
CO, teaches the course, which focuses on motivating
staff and running a productive sales meeting. Held twice each year, STEPS is only open to AWMA distributor members, who can register for the course online . For more information or to obtain a registration form, contact at (800) 482-2962, Extension 648, or . The 2006 AWMA
Summit & Business Exchange (ABX) will be held Sept. is
committed to the selection, growth,
recognition and development of talented and motivated individuals, from both within and outside the Company, to fill our current and future hotel position needs throughout the world.
Search all of our resort and hotel jobs and begin a rewarding hotel career with The Ritz-Carlton. The Ritz-Carlton participates in the . If you want to apply for an open position and need an accommodation to complete the electronic employment application, please contact
the HR office at the location where you want to apply. This
property has been a fixture on the Las Vegas Strip, but has recently undergone some major renovations, so you can
experience a taste of the old with all the new touches.
The Riviera also has some of the most original and diverse entertainment for your enjoyment – as they say – something for everyone. Take your pick: The Ice Show From Russia, An Evening at LA CAGE, Crazy Girls Topless Revue, the Comedy Club, An Evening with Dean Martin &
Friends, to name just a few of the whole line-up. This
is not so much that the hotel guests will then come out to play, but think about all those chorus boys and chorus girls!Krave Thanks to the Las Vegas
Convention and Visitors Authority and a great group of travel agents, this trip was a great success and fun. Hopefully by sharing our experience with you here on the site, you have gained a little better insight to the extremely gay-friendly destination of Las Vegas. Until we “Talk” or “Travel” again, get OUT and travel!   All of the travel agents on the trip were from agencies who were already marketing and selling to the gay and lesbian vacation traveler
market or who are planning to now that they have begun utilizing the TI Gay & Lesbian Travel program. A full agenda had been planned by the LVCVA, including site visits at twelve different
gay-friendly hotel properties and the opportunity to experience several different Las Vegas
entertainment venues. This site visit began
next to
the spectacular Coliseum, which currently is staging what has been referred to as the gay and lesbian “trifecta” with the shows rotating between Bette Midler, Cher and Elton John. Then on through the massive casino portion and on to look at the beautiful
spa, in completely new space it offers a wide arrange of services,
including couples massages for same-sex couples. On the way the group got to see two of the Chapels that
Caesars uses for Commitment Ceremonies. The highlight of the visit was the stop at the four-bedroom suite known as the “Rainman Suite”. Spend your day creating memories and leave all the details to us. Our wedding team specializes in crafting enchanting packages that ensure youll have the most captivating experience imaginable.             
Hide All    Enjoy this exclusive escape for
the bride and groom who wish to celebrate their nuptials as a party of two. Well, this is the suite that was used in that movie,
and it’s available for anyone to rent. Caesars Palace Dinner was provided at the exceptionally good restaurant, Isla, located in the property long-time known as Treasure Island.
Interestingly, is now becoming known as “TI”. This is another
sign of how Las Vegas is trying to re-invent itself away from the themed family destination to the more adult-geared vacation spot.