The Constitution and the Inauguration of the President
The inaugeration of President Herbert
Hoover in 1929 In order to ensure a smooth
transition of power, there is a need
for a period of time between the
election and and the swearing in
of the new period.  New presidents have to choose cabinet members and other key
administration members, as well as
get up to speed on security issues and simply began
the task of physically moving a new team
to Washington.  For the old president, this time in office is referred to as "the lame duck" period, a term taken from Wall Street that used to refer to people who could not pay off their loans--persons, like the lame duck president, without much capital. 70001    White       Cable No. 70075    Old Glory Blue Various sources give different Pantone
equivalencies for these colors. The most plausibly authoritative are those provided on
miscellaneous American Embassy
websites, including American Embassy
London. It gives the red as
PMS 193 and the blue as PMS 282. On the
other hand, Texas state law says the Texas state flag has the same colors as the U.S. flag, and that they are red PMS193 and blue PMS281. A simple majority of electoral votes is needed to become president;
if no candidate
receives that many votes, the election is thrown to the , which votes by . United States Electoral College
Twenty-second
Amendment to the Constitution
District of Columbia
Twenty-third Amendment to the
Constitution House of Representatives
state delegation While in
office, the in serves as the place of residence for
the president; he is entitled to use its staff and
facilities, including medical
care, recreation, housekeeping, and security services. One of two Boeing VC-25 aircraft, which
are extensively modified versions of Boeing
747-200B airliners, serve as long distance travel for the president, and are referred to as while the president is on board. In 1960, a star was added, representing , bringing the total number of stars to
50. There are thirteen stripes representing the
thirteen original colonies. Hawaii According to President Dwight
Eisenhower's Executive Order (#10834, published 25
August, 1959) the 50-Star flag would become the "official flag of the United States on
July 4, 1960." , 21 February 1996 Nick Artimovich What Shade of
Red/White/Blue The official specification for federal procurements of U.S. flags is set by the General Services Administration. At the Defense Technology Information Center website is GSA "Federal Specification, Flag, National, United States of America and Flag, Union Jack," DDD-F-416E, dated November 27, 1981. It specifies the colors by reference to "Standard Color Cards of America" maintained by the Color Association of the United States, Inc. Barack Obama : First Black
President of United States President Barack Obama Barack Hussein Obama II (born August 4, 1961) is the First Black President of United States of America. Obama is the first person of African-American descent to be nominated by a major American political party for President, and the first person of African American descent to be elected
President of the United
States of America. A graduate of
Columbia University and Harvard Law
School, where he became the first black person to serve
as president of the Harvard
Law Review, Obama worked as a community
organizer and practiced as a civil rights attorney before serving three terms in the
Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004. He taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Following an unsuccessful bid for a seat in the U.S. Where do you think those words come from?  They
certainly could have come direct from
Michael Moore himself.   They actually come from the latest Lonely Planet tourists' guide to the USA.  British Conservative MP Greg Hands recently folk to pay more attention to the political bias of travel guides.  He was right to do so.  The Lonely Planet Guide was recently .  Why is an "impartial" public service broadcaster
publishing guidebooks that surreptitiously endorse the "notion" that Americans are "pompous cretins"?  Why is the BBC publishing the idea that George W Bush has a "disregard for immigrants" when he upset the rank-and-file of his party by seeking to make it easier for illegal immigrants to find a path to citizenship.  The introduction to
the is full of attacks on the
religious beliefs of
Americans and its alleged insularity. Due to SuperMemo Library being moved to a new server, you can currently order this collection only as a subset of one of the mixes from that are listed in the section you can find in the left pane of this page (if available). We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience this may cause. Our
entire assortment is being
republished incrementally in order of
priority as determined by the quality and popularity
of individual collections. If you would
like to increase the priority of this
collection, contact us by writing to:
publish (at) super-memory (dot) com
with in the subject.
Super Memory Store Order as part of...  Description   Did you know that there have already been 42 presidents of the United States of America? He was elected to the Senate in November 2004 with 70 percent of the vote. As a member of the Democratic minority in the 109th Congress, he helped create legislation to control
conventional weapons and to promote greater public
accountability in
the use of federal funds. He also made
official trips to
Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. During the 110th Congress, he helped create legislation regarding lobbying and electoral fraud, climate change, nuclear terrorism, and care for returned U.S. military personnel. Obama announced his presidential campaign in February 2007, and was formally nominated at the 2008 Democratic
National Convention with Delaware senator Joe
Biden as his running mate. History of the National
Christmas Trees
national christmas tree includes:
Written by C.L. Arbelbide"A Brief Story of the National Christmas Tree"   "The first National Christmas Tree," lit on December 24, 1923, in the middle of the Ellipse. The Washington Monument is seen in the background. (Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division) In November 1923, First Lady Grace Coolidge gave permission for the District of
Columbia Public Schools to erect a Christmas tree on the Ellipse south of the White House. The organizers named the tree the "National Christmas Tree." That Christmas Eve, at 5 p.m., President Calvin Coolidge walked from the White House to the Ellipse and "pushed the button" to light the cut 48-foot Balsam fir, as 3,000 enthusiastic
spectators looked on. The tree,
donated by Middlebury College, was from the Presidents native state of Vermont. A person managing the campaign for a candidate. 7. Elections are held The first Tuesday in November The first Tuesday of January The Fourth of July 8. In order to vote a person must Be eighteen years old, be registered to vote and be a citizen of the United States. Be eighteen year old, a high school graduate and be a citizen of the United States Who is known as the president of the Senate? Although has numerous responsibilities and powers under the Constitution, its chief function is to make laws.   The legislative process can be quite complicated.  A proposed law, or bill, must pass through a series of steps before it is voted upon on the House and Senate floors. At any one of these steps, a bill can be delayed, defeated, or amended (changed). Thomas Jefferson always had dreams of something bigger, first in the words of the Declaration of Independence and later in the expansion of our nation through the Louisiana Purchase. Preservation of the union was paramount to Abraham Lincoln but a nation where all men were free and equal was destined to be. At the turn of the Twentieth Century Theodore Roosevelt saw that in our nation was the possibility for greatness. Our nation was changing from a rural republic to a world power. The ideals of these presidents laid a foundation for our nation as solid as the rock from which their figures are carved. Each man possessed great skills and leadership of the brand our nation needed for the times. Today millions of visitors come to see Mount Rushmore and gain inspiration from these four great men.       Q. Name all U.S. Presidents who did not complete a term to which they were elected, for one reason or another. A. William Henry Harrison, died in office (1841); Zachary Taylor, died in office (1850); Abraham Lincoln, assassinated (1865); James A. Garfield, assasinated (1881); William McKinley, assassinated (1901); Warren Harding, died in office (1923); Franklin Delano Roosevelt; died in office (1945); John F. Kennedy, assasinated (1963); Richard M. Nixon, resigned (1974) and technically Gerald Ford (since he was never elected to office, he "never completed a term to which he was
elected"). Of the eight Presidents whose
terms were ended by their deaths, four of the
Vice-Presidents who ascended to office
were elected for their own term (Theodore Roosevelt, 1904; Calvin Coolidge, 1924; Harry Truman, 1948 and Lyndon
B. From here, you can meet the First Family, take an interactive tour of the Whitehouse, the Old Executive Office Building, or see the First Ladies' Garden of the White House. You can also see major electronic texts of Daily Press Releases, Topical Releases, Major Documents (such as speeches by the President), and National
Documents (ie NAFTA & the Declaration of Independance). If you haven't
heard the President or Vice
President's voice in quite some
time, you can also here
a welcome message from both of them.
Whitehouse Continuing through the
Executive Branch is the President's
cabinet made up of 14 different
departments covering all facets of American
life. The public buildings in Washington were burned, and it was only
by the most strenuous
measures that the progress of the British was interrupted. Monroe gained much popularity by the measures that he took for the protection of the capital, and for the enthusiasm with which he prosecuted the war measures of the government. Monroe had now held
almost every important station except that of president to which a politician could aspire. He had served in
the legislature of Virginia, in the Continental
congress, and in the senate of the United States. He had been a member
of the convention that considered the
ratification of the constitution,
twice he had served as
governor, twice he had been sent abroad as a minister, and he had been accredited to three great powers. Climate Change and the Role of Higher Education Date:  January 4, 2008 On November 26, Arizona State University hosted the Conference on Climate Change and the Role of Higher Education. The event included faculty presentations about
climate change and discussion by the
presidents of Arizona’s three
universities - Arizona State University, The University of Arizona, and Northern Arizona University - regarding the challenges that climate change poses to higher education institutions and the state. This podcast features remarks by ASU President Michael Crow concerning the steps that need to be taken by universities in order to address the issue of
climate change and other important environmental concerns, as well as to prepare students for tackling these issues in the future. Legislative Branch State and Local Government                                                   
                                                  
Constitution The American Constitution is
the oldest written
constitution in force in the world. The
authors of the Constitution built in a provision
for amending the document when political, social or economic conditions demanded it.
Reproduction of painting
of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and others signing the U.S. Constitution in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (©Library of Congress) Twenty-seven amendments have been passed since ratification. The first 10 amendments to the Constitution, called the Bill of Rights, assure individual rights and freedoms. The Constitution divides the powers of the government into three branches - the Executive, headed by the President; the Legislative, which includes both houses of Congress (the Senate
and the House of Representatives); and the Judicial, which is headed by the Supreme Court. The current president is , inaugurated on January 20, 2001 to a first term and on January 20, 2005 to a second. His term expires at noon on January 20, 2009, after
which he will be replaced by the winner of the . From the middle of the twentieth century, the
United States' status as a has led the American president to become one of the world's most well-known and influential public figures. U.S. presidential elections are regarded by many as events of international as well as national significance and are closely followed in many places around the world. This lesson discusses the idea of government by the consent of the governed, and why such government is the only legitimate kind of government from the point of view of the American
Founders. Discussion questions
follow the reading. Students will
analyze historical evidence including primary sources to understand what it means for a government to operate with the consent of the governed, and why that is important. National Council for the Social Studies: Thematic Strands I, II, V, VI, X Arizona Academic Standards, Social Studies: 1SS-E17, E18; 2SS-E3, E7, P1, P5, P10 California History-Social
Science Content Standards: 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4; 11.1; 12.1, 12.2 Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills: Social Studies 8.1, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.16, 8.21, 8.23; U.S. Government 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16 Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, John Jay, The Federalist Papers, ed. President of the United States From Metapedia Jump to: , navigation search The
(sometimes abbreviated as ) is the and of the . The president is at the head of the of the , whose role is to enforce national law as given in the and written by . establishes the president as of the and enumerates powers specifically granted to the president, including the power to sign into law or bills passed by both houses of Congress, to create a of advisors, to grant or reprieves, and, with the "" of the , to make , appoint federal officers, , and federal , including
Justices of the .