 For past press releases, please see our archived section . Get the latest news and updates about Anaheim's
new premier retail, dining and entertainment
center, the . Anaheim GardenWalk Orange County's beautiful
weather provides a great setting for a variety
of special events. For the latest events search
our . Calendar of Events
Press tours, video and b-roll,
publications and other
destination information are .
also available     What's New Explore our continually
updated comprehensive list of and on the horizon in
Anaheim/Orange County. what's new   High resolution images of Anaheim/Orange County are available for . downloading online  
Anaheim/Orange County Destination Update 2008 The enhanced 30-page publication includes a destination overview, maps, what's new, local celebrity scoop, insider tips, story ideas and fun facts. Download a or order a PDF version hard copy.   Orlando, Florida United States Of America Event Profile: This Midwest event is the meeting place for the industry dedicated solely to the ever-changing apparel, sportswear, embroidery, screen-printing and promotional products industry. Join ISS, where the industry will come together to conduct business, create networking
opportunities, launch new products and learn
first hand how to improve ROI, increase
production, decrease costs, and more.
Visitor's Profile: Trade Visitors - importers &
exporters of athletic apparel and t-shirts, bags
and luggage, computer services and equipment, digital equipment,
to labels, outerwear, screen printing, etc. & General Public.
Exhibitor's Profile: Exhibitors include manufacturers of athletic apparel and
t-shirts, bags and luggage,
computer services and equipment, digital equipment, to labels, outerwear, screen printing, etc. Organizer: 1145 Sanctuary Parkway Suite 355, Alpharetta,
United States Of America. Tel: +(91)-(770)-5691540 Fax: +(91)-(703)-7778821
Nielsen Business Media, USA Trade Visitors -
manufacturers, importers & exporters of Kitchen wares, Home Electronics, Appliances, Bathroom Items, Furniture, General Gifts, Personal Accessories, Home Repair Items, Home Decoration, Leisure Items, Sports & Health Items & General Pubilc. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit includes Decorating, Renovating, Landscaping, Building,
New Bathroom, New Kitchen,
Purchase of Major Appliance, Relocating & other related industry products. Organizer: CROSS-MARKET BUYING OPPORTUNITIES.
BUSINESS-BUILDING EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS. Visitor's Profile: Persons related to General Gift & Card
Stores, Home Furnishings and
Decorative Accessory Stores, Mail Order
Catalogues, Department
and Chain Stores, Floral Gift Stores,
Garden Centers, Fashion
Accessory Stores, Theme Parks, Independent &
Specialty Stores, Party & Paper Stores are the target visitors. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit includes general
giftware, decorative accessories, greeting cards, paper goods, stationery, tabletop,
country crafts, collectibles,
fashion accessories, toys and games, garden gifts, seasonal items, designer/artisan items and countless others. Organizer: 1690, Roberts Blvd NW Suite 111, Kennesaw, United States Of America. Tel: +(1)-(678)-2853976 Fax: +(1)-(678)-2857469 Urban Expositions Professionals related to the field of Specialty retail, chain, department,
gift, home furnishing/ decorative accessory, bed/
bath linen stores, book stores, bridal,
children's gifts, craft & hobby, dollar stores, florist/garden, gallery/
museum, gift basket, kitchen
stores, wholesaler/distributors, premium incentive buyers, card stores. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for
exhibit includes Apparel, fashion accessories, bed/bath
linen, body & soul, contemporary handcrafted, child's play, general gift, gourmet
food, garden accessories, home
& decor, jewelry, stationery, resort. You probably already know the Orlando area has more attractions and family type entertainment than any other American city.  So many in fact, it would be impossible to list them all here. On the Home page of our website, we've devoted a section to some of our favorite attractions under 'What Nearby/Things
To Do'.  These pages provide more
details and links to our favorite Orlando area
attractions. For a hotel with low room rates
near all the area attractions, choose one of our three prime locations: , or the
.  EconoLodge Orlando Hotel Howard Johnson
Kissimmee Hotel Rodeway Inn Kissimmee
Hotel World of Asphalt features in-depth
industry-focused educational programming, equipment demonstrations and comprehensive exhibits
showcasing the latest technologies and innovations in
asphalt-related equipment, products and services. Highlights: The World of Asphalt 2006 Show
& Conference will host over 200 exhibitors showcasing the latest technologies and innovations in asphalt-related equipment, products and services. It will also feature in-depth, industry-focused educational programming and training sessions, including the Asphalt Pavement Alliance?s Asphalt Pavement Conference and the People, Plants and
Paving Training Program. Visitor's Profile: Persons involved in all segments of the asphalt
industry including materials producers, contractors, state and agency specifiers, manufacturers and service providers. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit
include latest technologies and innovations in asphalt-related equipment, products and
services etc. Organizer: PMB
250, 3 Church, Annapolis, United States Of America. Tel: +(1)-(410)-2670023 Fax: +(1)-(410)-2677546 Asphalt Emulsion Manufacturers Association An extensive array of guest services fulfills a variety of needs *Regular transportation to Orlando International Airport with Mears Transportation or by calling Star Taxi: (407) 857-9999
*On-site car rental, gift shop, valet and photo finishing *On-site covered garage provides secure parking *In-room high-speed Internet (Click Here for details) *On-site IKON Business Center offers photocopying, fax, secretarial
and other office services The
Rosen Centre Hotel in Orlando indulges its guests with an array of superior recreation. The hotel also offers the perfect base to explore Orlando magical
attractions, all nearby. Meeting delegates can easily expand their business trip into once-in-a-lifetime family
vacations. Extended stay packages feature specially
discounted rates and flexible scheduling. The Peabody
Orlando offers a full range of Orlando hotel packages
and specials to appeal to all ages and tastes. Choose from our
distinguished collection of Orlando hotel specials, designed to
help you fulfill your dream vacation in this traveler's
paradise, including: Hooray for
Hollywood! With our LightsCameraAction
package, you'll feel like a movie star when you check into The Peabody Orlando and
experience Universal's Island
of Adventure and the Universal Orlando theme parks, which are just minutes from our
front drive. The package includes: $229 per
night including tax,
(two-night minimum stay) in a Superior Room. Orange County
Convention Center (OCCC) Orlando, Florida
United States Of America Event Profile: The PGA Merchandise Show is the premier marketplace for golf manufacturers, course management,
apparel, and other golf related products and services. By providing both attendees and exhibitors with the forum to network and further develop their careers through
Educational Conferences, as well as the opportunity
to test products first hand through
interactive events, The PGA Merchandise Show is unmatched within the industry.
Highlights: Highlights include Golf Demo Day, Equipment Test Center, Education Conference, Fashion Shows, Dream Golf
Shop, Hot Zone New Product Center etc. Visitor's
Profile: PGA Professionals, Retail Buyers, Golf Professionals, Golf Travel
Professionals, Course Owners & CEO's, Course Superintendents, Club
Managers,
Tournament Directors, Coaches & Teachers & General Public are the target visitors.
Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit include Golf Equipment, Golf Products and
Service, Golf and Resort Apparel, Travel, Teaching Aids, Course Signage and Fixtures, Turf and Course Maintenance, Golf Carts, and Club Management. An approval by the BCC next
week will allow the expansion to three million square feet to be completed
in three stages of 680,000 square feet each. "The next phase of growth takes us where
we should be -- at the helm of one of the most beneficial
opportunities for our community," said Executive
Director Tom Ackert. "Every delegate who enters our doors presently spends approximately $1,200 within our community. At the end of the year, this equates to an impressive $2.3 billion in economic impact. This touches every man, woman and child in Orange County by lowering taxes and generating additional business for a healthy
economy," he added. Following the
Phase V expansion, the center is projected to
generate more than 5
million room nights and
an additional 21,600 new jobs to the area, while generating an additional $1.4 billion in economic activity and $55 million in taxes. This would increase the impact on the state's economy to $3.7 billion. Its trade show brands include , Hasselback has led the events, publishing and eMedia activities of Diversified Communications since 2003
and will now oversee all of the company’s
division  <Trade Show Executive> Nancy
HasselbackThe International Boston Seafood ShowAll Things
Organic and Kosherfest.   THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK     -- Anne
Morrow Lindbergh    American
author (1906-2001) Publisher's statement.The
Showfloor Buzz is a
publication of the
Exhibitor Appointed Contractor Association (EACA) which is dedicated to
"raising the level of service
excellence on the showfloor."     Dinner is on the
house at Capriccio Grill Italian
Steakhouse, our renowned restaurant specializing in U.S. Prime
Steaks and chops, seafood and pasta. This
heartwarming and romantic Orlando hotel package includes: $450 for the first night including tax;
additional nights available at $225 plus tax.
Guest is responsible for
additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Make your escape from everyday hassles with this indulgent Peabody Orlando hotel package. Pampering
begins with deluxe guestroom
accommodations and complimentary valet parking. Savor
some of the finest cuisines in any of our award-winning restaurants. Designed for total relaxation, this Orlando luxury vacation package includes: $299 per per night including tax; additional nights available at $199 plus tax. Guest is responsible for additional charges or values over allotted amounts.* Experience the elegance and Southern
hospitality traditions of The Peabody Orlando - a Mobil Four-Star, AAA Four Diamond hotel
located directly across from the Orange County Convention
Center. " Room Service Provided by UNO Chicago Grill "
Children
17yrs and under stay free Special need rooms
" TDD (TTY) Phone available on request " Service animals allowed for persons with disabilities " Courteous Staff For Room Features see our Accommodations Page All guests will enjoy a complimentary continental breakfast and access to the hotel's heated outdoor pool. Free USA Today newspapers are available each morning in the hotel lobby. All rooms feature free high-speed Internet access and a host of other amenities including a coffee maker, hairdryer, and iron w/ironing board. Check into the Ramada Convention Centre I-drive Orlando today! Nearby Restaurants (All within
one mile): Crab House (Sea Food)" 9860 Universal
BoulevardOrange County Convention Center (OCCC) Orlando, Florida
United States Of America Event Profile: Orlando Home Show has expanded and its better than ever with more diverse exhibits, more categories and more
interactive presentations on the fabulous stage! The show offers a unique
and broad selection of home
improvement-related businesses. You'll enjoy
various entertaining features and special guest speakers. Get ideas,
investigate new products, gather information and meet the professionals to help you make your next remodeling, renovation, or decorating project a breeze! Orange County Convention Center (OCCC) Orlando, Florida United States Of America Event Profile: Orlando Gift Show will offer Florida retailers an opportunity to explore more than 500
booths filled with some of the
biggest and best-selling product lines. As the largest and longest running
temporary gift event in Florida, the Orlando Gift Show features an unrivaled selection from resort and souvenir to stationery, table top, home furnishings and
more. In addition to the entertaining Orlando
theme parks, a number of other activities have been developed,
including Sea World and Universal Studios.
Not far away are other exciting adventures:
Blizzard
Beach, Typhoon Lagoon and River Country.
There is also a raft of hotels, restaurants and nightlife. Modern Orlando, along with other Florida attractions a short drive away, has activities for everyone, including locals. The city is home to performing arts and theater
companies, a collection of
fine arts galleries, historical museums, a science center and universities and colleges that contribute to a well-rounded cultural experience.For information regarding special offers for convention attendees, simply click on the ticket link and let the fun begin! • One of the area's biggest attractions is its year-round mild weather. At the heart of the "Sunshine State," the area's average annual temperature is a comfortable 72.4 degrees. • Orlando International Airport is the 23rd
largest airport in the world, and the 14th largest in the U.S. It is also
the 13th fastest-growing
major airport in the U.S., and the 25th in the world.