But make sure not to have too much as to trigger deadly diseases. The key here is knowing how to create a balance so you get all the essential nutrients. - It suffices your body with up to 9 calories per gram of fat. - It helps carry vitamins such as A, D, E, and K, which are all fat-soluble. - Some parts of your body such as hair, nails, and skin need essential oils in order to maintain its growth and vitality. Fat provides these essential oils. Again, it is important to become aware of the type of fat consumed as it has dramatic impact in your overall health condition. In addition, trans fats can lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or “good,” cholesterol levels.But not all margarines are created equal When choosing a margarine, try to find one with the lowest trans fat content possible and less than 3 grams total of saturated plus trans fats. Manufacturers are now required to list saturated and trans fats separately on food labels. There are also spreads  such as Benecol and Take Control  that contain phytosterols, natural plant compounds that have been shown to reduce LDL cholesterol levels by 6 percent to 15 percent when eaten in recommended amounts. Is Heat or Ice Better for Arthritis Pain? Eleven recent studies that directly evaluated the health effects of margarine versus butter have all confirmed that soft margarine is healthier. These 11 studies, involving more than 70,000 individuals, clearly demonstrate the cholesterol-lowering benefits of margarine
products compared to butter. Although some fat is essential, health professionals recommend that we reduce the total of fat in our diet. Fat provides the source for converting energy needed by your body to perform daily activities. Meanwhile, it also aids in helping absorb essential vitamins like A, E, K, and carotenoids. However, it is important to consume fat in moderate amounts only. That way, you can ensure that your body gets fat that it will need to grow and develop, while also maintaining a healthy well being. This type of nutrient is most important for toddlers and infants as it assists in their growth process. Unsaturated fats, like monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are the healthier type of fats. The term was coined in 1972 by , head of the .Empty calories dietary calories nutritional carbohydrates fats nutrients vitamins minerals antioxidants amino acids refined grains Michael Jacobson Center for Science in the Public Interest Limiting empty calories is important to prevent , especially in individuals. This is essential when people try to lose weight so that they have an adequate intake of vitamins and minerals and avoid . recommend replacing empty-calorie foods with nutrient-dense foods such as and . When in baking with a light margarine or a light butter, again the water
content and less fat content may not give you the taste or the texture that you had with the original product.Katherine Zeratsky: What are the dietary recommendations for fat, such as butter or margarine?Rich Dietman: When choosing a butter or margarine, as we said earlier, it is best to choose ones that are lower in fat, saturated fat and trans fat. (The recommendation for people with high triglycerides or diabetes, however, typically is not less than 25 percent.) Polyunsaturated fat Polyunsaturated fats include safflower, corn, sunflower, soy and cottonseed oils and certain fish oils. Omega-3 fatty acids are an especially heart-friendly type of polyunsaturated fat. Salmon, albacore tuna, sardines and herring are among the fish rich in omega-3s. Canola oil, soybeans, English walnuts and flaxseed also contain omega-3s in smaller amounts. Read the  regarding omega-3 fatty acids. American Heart Association's recommendations  Judith Shaw in her book says these fats are found in almost every processed food in the supermarket from soups to chips, crackers to
cookies, pastries to mixes of all kinds, including some pasta and rice mixes. Raising Low-Fat Kids in a High-Fat World They are also found in frozen foods like pizza and pot pies and even some cereals. When you order or cook  deep-fried foods such as donuts, French fries, chicken, fish, etc., vegetable (hydrogenated) shortenings are often used to fry them. Podcast: Margarine — Is it healthier than butter? Medical expert: Katherine Zeratsky, R.D., L.D. Total time: 0:05:42 minutes Subscribe to podcasts TRANSCRIPT Welcome to Mayo Clinic's podcast. This month's topic is "Margarine — Is it healthier than butter?" I'm your host, Rich Dietman. In today's podcast we're talking about the relative health benefits of margarine vs. butter with Katherine Zeratsky, a registered dietitian at Mayo Clinic, and specialty editor for the Food &
Nutrition Center on MayoClinic.com. You will find
trans fat mostly in milk or body fat of certain animals such as sheep or cows. Before, trans fats were mostly consumed from animal products. However, it was recently revealed by a study that plant-based foods are also major contributors of trans fat. Therefore, beware of manufactured products such as vegetable shortenings or
margarine
because they consist of artificial trans fat which are partially hydrogenated and may have 45% more trans fat than their total. Health Impact of Trans Fat Among other results, researchers have found that trans fatty acids significantly raise LDL cholesterol levels, t while lowering the HDL levels, In the Framingham Heart Study (a 40 year study covering 5,209 individuals living in Massachusetts) high LDL cholesterol levels combined with low HDL levels was indicative of coronary heart disease risk. he bad cholesterol,the good cholesterol. With all this information about cholesterol and heart problems, why does the food industry use hydrogenated or
partially hydrogenated fats in food products? Plain and simple reason: hydrogenation extends the supermarket shelf life of products. It is therefore best to choose a margarine/spread that is non-hydrogenated, low in saturated fat and contains mono and polyunsaturated fat that help lower blood cholesterol levels. Not one of the
Unilever Margarine and spreads contains any trans fats. Margarine is clearly the heart-healthy choice recommended by health professionals and leading health organizations. Margarine’s that have removed the trans fatty acids from their product has received the endorsement from the heart foundation. So, just because butter comes straight from nature doesn’t mean it’s
healthier for you. The smooth spreading of the STORK Country Spread makes it a popular choice for moms. Just a caveat:No calorie butter sprays lean a good ways over the sodium pit in the Old Diet Trail.  Five shots from most bottled varieties contains about 75 mg of sodium, but who can stop at five teensy shots unless one is a Power Dieter?   Also,
the base of most of these mock-butters is soy bean oil and as we know, oil doesn't come without calories. The key to the no-calorie sprays is .using the minimal amount as suggested on the container label Some years later, margarine became all the rage, as a "healthy alternative to butter". Boy, it is really amazing how wrong they got it.   Saturated Fats   Saturated fats are used by our bodies for insulation and energy. We are able to make as much as we need from carbohydrates (sugars and such), proteins and fats. So we can actually get along fine without consuming an external source of saturated fat. It a great argument for eating a vegetarian diet, or at least buying  organic pesticide free foods whenever possible.   Bottom Line Keep all fats in check - use spreads sparingly to bring out the flavor in food.  On a lower fat diet, the type of fat you choose becomes less important because you are eating smaller
amounts of all fat. Eating butter increases the absorption of many other nutrients in other foods.  Butter has many nutritional benefits, where margarine has a only few, because they are added.  Butter tastes much better than margarine, and it can enhance the flavors of other foods.  Butter has been around for centuries, where margarine has been around for less than 100 years. And now, for margarine, which... Is very high in trans-fatty acids. Triples the risk of coronary heart disease. Increases total cholesterol and LDL (the bad cholesterol), and lowers HDL cholesterol (the good cholesterol). I even added cardamom and orange zest to my icing so it was that much more heavenly. Still though, I can say - that these did
not turn out exactly like a real Cinnabon".. the recipe was a knock off
that I paid a whole .79 for.. so I knew it wouldn't be 100% authentic, but they were close. I have yet to master the art of making those huge tiered cinnamon rolls though.. mine usually end up more disc like. I get a good rise in my dough, but when I roll them and slice them, the middle doesn't rise above the rest as
much as Cinnabon's" rolls
do. columnaris
Amazing, laura said it kind of reminds me of when my friend rachel clued me in on the whole butter versus margarine thing your y used. Butter versus margarine margarine was originally manufactured to fatten turkeys when it killed the turkeys, the people who had put all the money into the research wanted a payback. butter has its own problems: saturated fat. Tip: Spectrum Foods makes a  margarine from non-hydrogenated vegetable oil, the only one I have found. What is hydrogenated fat? Shaw  writes, "Hydrogenated oils are fats that have the same capacity to do harm as saturated fats." They are saturated-like fats made from plant oils and fats that have been heated and pressure-processed. The hydrogenation process involves chemically introducing hydrogen at high temperature for 6-8 hours to convert an oil's polyunsaturated fat (the liquid portion) to a solid fat. This solid fat (the trans-fatty acid) is known to cause an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, an increase in total
cholesterol, a decrease in HDL (good) cholesterol, and it contributes to immune system dysfunction.   If you take anything away from this article, I hope it is at least this: TFAs are a creation of man. Nowhere in nature does a fat like this occur... at least not in a form intended to be eaten by a human. Margarine Which is Better for You?   Steer clear of stick margarines. There are many alternatives that reduce or eliminate trans fats and are much healthier – read on. Q: Years ago, I switched from butter to margarine to reduce my cholesterol intake. Now I hear that margarine contains something even worse than cholesterol – trans fat – so I’m thinking about switching back to butter. Within a couple of
days, you will note a couple of things: No flies, not even those pesky fruit flies, will go near it.  (That should tell you something.)  It will not rot or smell differently, because it has NO nutritional value.  Nothing will grow on it.  Even tiny microorganisms will not a find a home to grow on.  Why?  Because
margarine is nearly plastic.