Patch of the Minnesota State Patrol. Agency Overview 544 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
277 (as of 2004) [4] Agency executive
http://www.dps.state.mn.us/patrol/
The is the statewide police force in the state of . The State Patrol concentrates primarily on traffic enforcement and highway safety. Troopers are also involved with accident reconstruction and commercial vehicle enforcement. "The Patrol will face some significant challenges in the next few years, including
changing technology and the need for an expanded officer corps. "Col. Grimstad, as part of the new generation of leadership in the Highway Patrol, has the vision and skills to face those challenges," McGrath said. Grimstad, 46, will mark 21 years with the Patrol this fall. - $50 per month for officers assigned full time as a Vehicle Theft or Fraud Investigator.Investigator Pay - Four percent of base pay for officers assigned to motorcycle enforcement duty.Motorcycle Pay - Officers are eligible to receive the additional monthly differential listed below added to their base salary:Senior Officer Pay 18 years as a CHP officer - Two percent If you successfully pass all
above
phases you will be given a date to
report before an Oral Review Board. The Board will consist of five members of the Patrol. The Board will recommend the top candidates for appointment to the next available patrol class to the Patrol Commander and DPS Director. Site Map Web Content Accessibility We believe the California State Portal satisfies all Priority 1, 2, and 3 guidelines, for "AAA" compliance of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0. In addition, the California Portal satisfies , Subpart B, Subsection 1194.22, Guidelines A-P of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as revised in 1998. Enforce all the laws of the state of Colorado on approximately 8,483 miles (13,652 km) of state highways and more than 57,000 miles (92,000 km) of county roads. Investigate and
report
traffic crashes occurring on public
property. Direct, control and regulate motor vehicle traffic on public roadways. Inspect vehicles for safety-related equipment violations. Inspect vehicles carrying livestock for brand inspection certificates. A Search and Rescue Team was organized to look for lost persons and conduct rescues in our mountainous terrain. The Department grew to 193 State Police and 85 civilians by June 30, 1970. E.W. Corcoran was appointed the new Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety on July 1, 1970. After seven years experience, Capitol Police Officers I are eligible to promotion to Capitol Police Officers II and receive an accompanying salary increase. Capitol Police Officer III is a first-level supervisory position and requires a minimum of five years experience as a Capitol Police Officer I or II. After two years of service, Communications Specialists I are eligible for promotion to Communications Specialist II and receive an accompanying salary
increase. The first female troopers joined the Patrol in 1981. Today, the agency actively recruits women and men to be troopers and to fill other uniformed and civilian positions. Besides troopers, the agency employs capitol police officers and guards, motor carrier inspectors, communications specialists, vehicle identification number inspectors, and civilians in a variety of other support positions. The Idaho State Police is tasked with the physical protection of the Governor of the state as well as other dignitaries who may need protection. [10] The Idaho State Police has a 20 member tactical team made up of both troopers and detectives from every region in the state. The team was formerly referred to as the Crisis Response Team,
the name has since been changed to . Sioux Indian Cannonball River Standing Rock Indian Reservation Mandan, North Dakota Red Tomahawk, a subchief, served as a government policeman helping to create order in a time of
turbulence. He was considered a champion of his people, a noble
American, and a just man. Today his profile reminds travelers of the first people to roam the plains. Illinois also announced in February 2006, that mounted in vans would be used for speed enforcement in construction zones statewide. Though the vans are manned by State Police troopers, a private company, ACS State and Local Solutions, provides the vans for a fee and receives a bonus of $15 per ticket issued. To secure and maintain order in traffic on highways of assigned responsibility within existing regulations to make the use of those highways safe and expeditious; To educate the citizens of Texas in matters of public safety, crime prevention and detection and law observance; and To supervise police security
of the Capitol complex and assigned areas of responsibility A March 1966 blizzard killed ten people and 95,000 head of livestock died. 260 people died in highway related accidents and multiple fatal accidents killed 32. Captain Delton Schultz took the from Arndt in 1967. The Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program was approved and the state employees retirement system was created. If we asked you, "would you get in a car with a drunk driver?" chances are you'd answer "no way!" But it's not as simple as it sounds. We put some kids to this test, with an actor pretending to be a
drunk driver...watch to find out what happens. the video I am committed to providing South Dakotans and web site visitors with the most current, timely, and comprehensive information available. As the Internet and the World Wide Web continue to grow, the South Dakota Highway Patrol will use this means of communication to inform, educate, and aid our communication with the public. The Patrol has mainly used the for a number of years. Recently the Patrol has begun using the Police Pursuit Version as well. For a short time, the Patrol also had motorcycle officers, riding custom
made ElectraGlide's, until the early
1980's
due to the neglect, and later, uninterest of a motorcycle division within the Patrol. Governor, and other dignitaries), a Motor Carrier Safety Enforcement (MCSAP) section, and a Hazardous Materials Response Unit. There is also a section called the Anti-Terrorist Assistance Program (ATAP) which is a joint venture with the . This ATAP section trains foreign police and military forces in detecting, preventing, and fighting of terrorism. A sub-station of Troop 1 is located on the grounds of the Brandywine Town Center in the Brandywine Hundred section of New Castle County. Sussex County has two "Uniformed" troops, Troop 7, located in , and Troop 5, located in . Bear Woodside Georgetown Claymont Elsmere Odessa Lewes Bridgeville The DSP also operates several special units/locations around the state, including aviation units in Georgetown and Middletown, and a weigh station on U.S. This interview panel normally consists of three board members who ask job-related interview questions to each applicant (A facilitator will be available to answer any questions from the applicant, reference the Highway Patrol benefits, salary, probationary period, etc.). The interview process takes 30 - 60 minutes, depending on the position. Prior to the 1992 merger, the Division of State Police's Training Academy was located in . This facility now houses the Department of State Police General Headquarters. New Braintree Framingham, Massachusetts Becoming a Trooper is a competitive process. Approximately 14,000 men and women took the written entrance exam in June 2002. Additional riding facilities are provided for the Motorcycle Enforcement Training Course. The Weapons Training Unit has both an indoor and outdoor range, each equipped with
30 electronically controlled moving targets. The entire area has lighting which can be controlled to simulate different environmental conditions or to allow training during hours of darkness. They are offered in Adobe PDF format. The forms are to be printed, completed as indicated on each form, and forwarded to the appropriate CHP office as shown on the form or the instruction sheet for the particular form. Applicants must include payment, if any, as indicated on the form. The CHP offers military personnel a unique working environment which utilizes the skills, self-discipline, and life experiences you
have developed during military
service.
Former military personnel easily fit into the CHP's workforce and adapt well to our paramilitary work environment. You can use your former military skills and self-initiative to help you promote through the CHP's ranks.  Trooper Hoffman's years of service were from October 1, 1978 to March 12, 1980.   Trooper
Hoffman died from his injuries after being struck by a truck during a routine traffic stop north of Freeman, South Dakota.  Trooper Hoffman will be remembered for his commitment to service and his helping ways. New home of Class 48 George S. Mickelson Criminal Justice Training Center - Pierre   Recruit class 48 would like to welcome you to the South Dakota Highway Patrol Academy Recruit Page.  We appreciate your interest in our progress and development into state troopers.  We are honored to serve the citizens of South Dakota and the state’s many visitors. Corbitt, who was nominated by current , replaced acting superintendent Preston Felton. (Felton had replaced the retired Wayne E. Bennett) New York State Governor David Paterson [] edit Structure and
organization The NYSP geographically
divides in to ten "Troops", each comprising several counties. An additional (Troop T) has the responsibility of patrolling the entire length of the . In 1992 the Missouri State Highway Patrol became only the 10th State Police/Highway Patrol to receive accreditation from the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies. This accreditation demonstrates the Patrol's commitment to professionalism and acceptance of high standards of excellence in law enforcement. This process also provides an ongoing evaluation of the Patrol's policies and procedures so that it may continue to grow and improve in the future Way way back in 1995, I was a CHP Explorer and the organization gave me a great sense of direction (and kept me out of trouble). Explorers helped out around the office and were able to take "ride-alongs" wth officers. So for an 8-hour shift, we sat in the passenger seat and zoomed around the freeways. If you have the
dedication, heart, and desire to make a
difference, then the California Highway Patrol wants you. Receive the best training in the nation at the CHP Academy from the most knowledgeable and tactical training staff in the world. Then take your skills to the road where you will be providing safety, service, and security to the citizens of California. The RISP Museum in North Scituate has been constructed and is open to the public. The current issue handgun to each trooper is a Sig Sauer P226 DAK chambered in a .357sig. [] edit Uniforms Rhode Island State Police Uniforms (L-R) K-9 Utility, SWAT, Winter, Winter with cold weather parka, Spring/Fall, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Unit (CVEU aka. Division of Alaska State Troopers The Division of Alaska State Troopers (AST) is charged with statewide law enforcement, prevention of crime, pursuit and apprehension of offenders, service of civil and criminal process, prisoner transportation, central communications, and
search and rescue. The Division is divided into five detachments and two bureaus. The department also operates Trooper Island Camp, a juvenile crime prevention program at . Governor Lieutenant Governor Kentucky General Assembly Kentucky State Capitol [9] Kentucky Vehicle Enforcement [10] Dale
Hollow Lake State Park [7] Asian: 1% [] edit In popular culture The alternate-timeline historical fiction author has used a fictionalized Kentucky State Police as a plot device in his series. The Montana Highway Patrol is divided into eight districts. The Patrol's 200 troopers cover great distances to police Montana's highways, assist other and help motorists in need. Each year, the men and women of the Patrol: law enforcement agencies drive more than 5.5 million miles respond to over 70,000 calls for service [] edit Fallen officers Since its formation in 1929, 213 CHP Officers have been killed in the line of duty. The three most common causes of line of duty deaths to date are (in order): Automobile/Motorcycle Accidents; Gunfire; Vehicular Assault (i.e., struck by drunk driver, reckless driving or otherwise impaired drivers). Trooper Joseph Emanuel Dillard [31] September 15, 1964 Killed in an automobile accident in
Medina Trooper William Gordon Barnes [32] January 22, 1966 Killed in an automobile accident Trooper Michael Theodore Dafferner [33] April 6, 1966 Killed in an automobile accident in Knoxville Lieutenant Samual W. Gibbs [34] August 27, 1966 It was created to protect the lives, property and constitutional rights of people in Arkansas.Arkansas State Police state police Arkansas jurisdiction [] citation needed On March 19th, 1935 when Governor J.M. Futrell and the Arkansas General Assembly approved and signed into law Act 120, known as the Chrip-Carter bill, the Arkansas State Police was born. The Maryland State Police, along with the , the and the , is one of the few police agencies to wear a directly over their shirt pocket. Virginia State Police West Virginia State Police Massachusetts State Police badge Maryland State
Police troopers are currently issued the and some are issued a .