Unfortunately, of the few written records left by the early explorers, traders
and trappers regarding the original, pristine condition, those that have survived are sparse indeed. Source The text contained within
the following links is taken from Chapter 1 of the book
"Shrub-steppe: Balance and Change in a Semi-arid Terrestrial
Ecosystem", W. Called the "core proteome," the ubiquitous nature of this group of proteins suggests that they are fundamental to bacterial life. | Full Story...
More News Systems Biology at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Systems biology researchers at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) focus on understanding gene and protein networks involved in individual cell signaling,
communication between cells in communities, and cellular metabolic pathways. From cultivating relationships with our community to building advocacy within the region, the Community and Regional Outreach staff provides the resources and programs to ensure that PNNL is an asset to the northwest region and the local community. The Community and Regional Outreach organization builds mutually beneficial
relationships and implements strategies to promote economic vitality, generate goodwill and advocacy for the laboratory, the community and our regional neighbors. The PNNL-developed risk management approach involves using semi-quantitative
methods to describe processes for reducing hazards and risk at
major DOE sites, such as the Hanford Site in Washington and the Savannah River Site in South Carolina. The methods enable data to be
produced on the immediate
environmental and public health concerns regarding specific contaminants, as well as the long-term risks associated with degradation of material or possible releases of material to the environment. Pacific
Northwest National Laboratory
(PNNL) and Washington State University Tri-Cities (WSU-TC) are
teaming to host a speaker series dedicated to educating
stakeholders, the community, and other interested individuals and organizations on what it takes to successfully build a research park. Speakers, experienced in developing research parks across the country, will share their experiences in locating federal funding and investors, recruiting tenants, and collaborating with universities, national laboratories, and industrial interests. Our programs promote for, provide to, and offer to technology businesses. opportunities assistance resources With its strong science and technology history, the
Tri-Cities is recognized for its innovation and entrepreneurial enterprises. Our community is one of the region's strongest technology anchors since 1943, and we want it continue to grow and thrive long after Hanford Site cleanup ends. We value the environment and protect it, the public and future generations from unacceptable risks resulting from its operations. In support of this policy, we are committed to: Identifying, evaluating, preventing and managing the hazards associated with our work. Integrating conservation, pollution prevention, and waste minimization
principles into work activities. Complying with all laws,
regulations, and contractual obligations and with additional requirements that management implements to achieve operational excellence. Clients may choose to graphically depict such "email spaces" in any of a number of ways, depending on the problem being solved. An analyst may initially wish to view the collection as a network diagram in which the emails are portrayed as edges
connecting nodes that represent senders and recipients, to identify important topological relationships among individuals based on
"who sent what to whom." Off-road vehicles for disabled usersService/Product: PNNL staff, market assessment support, technology assistancePNNL's Contribution: Mundo Communications Network PNNL staff, equipment, technology assistancePNNL's
Contribution:
Electronics, Instrumentation, and Analytical Tools Technologies for environmental safety and sustainable powerService/Product: PNNL staff, equipment, location
in Applied Process Engineering Laboratory, technology assistance, market analysis supportPNNL's Contribution: KeyMaster Technologies, Inc.() web site Kennewick, WA Anticounterfeiting technology for brand protection and quality controlService/Product: Explains the underlying scientific principles and tools related to air pollution.Science Gives a
visual perspective of possible air pollution sources and provides a tool to survey facilities.Installation The Learning Center has other notable features for air resource managers. The resource page provides information and tools, including printable air program activity checklists and forms, links to additional information sources, a list of regulations, and a glossary of relevant terms. This
facility is dedicated to the fulfillment of important DOE and national goals related to understanding atmospheric processes as they relate to the DOE's environmental missions and the global environment. Central to this facility is an advanced sampling platform, the PNNL Grumman Gulfstream 159 (G-1) aircraft and its flight crew, technical and engineering support staff, and state-of-the-art instrumentation. Securing Our Borders Mike Spradling On April 21, 2004 Mike Spradling gave a presentation on how protecting america is a national priority, and how innovative technologies
under development at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) are helping
in the mission to make the country a safer place to live. Among the technologies that Mike Spradling showcased were the Acoustic Inspection Device and Millimeter
Wave Imager. Detection and characterization of cracks in a
metal pipe is a macro-property measurement which may use an
electromagnetic, acoustic, or ultrasonic probe and specialized data acquisition and analysis methods Representative Applications Non-Destructive Evaluation (material integrity, defect detection & characterization) Metrology (dimensional gauging, product inspection) Shape & texture characterization Remote sensing (thermal, vegetation, mineral, etc.) , Point of Contact Dick Ecker At the Marine Sciences Laboratory on Sequim Bay in Washington's Puget Sound, PNNL researchers help protect marine animals from pollutants and restore disturbed habitats. PNNL's Sequim Marine Research Operations (MRO) facility is located on the scenic Olympic Peninsula of Washington State. The MRO is made up of the Marine Sciences Laboratory (MSL)
and
the Coastal Security Institute
(CSI). Genomic comparisons identified genes common to two or more bacteria (orange) resulting in a core genome of 144 genes. Proteomic measurements were used to
verify the existence of these genes
as proteins (red) in 17 bacteria, resulting in the identification of a core
proteome (arrows). Diverse bacteria have much in common, right down to the core. New and improved catalytic materials and processes are being developed to attain
more rapid
reaction rates using milder, less energy-intensive reaction conditions, and
for enhanced selectivity to produce the desired reaction products with minimal waste byproducts. Accordingly, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) has a longstanding interest in catalysis and continues to support catalysis R&D through the national laboratories, including Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. With more than 10 years of visual analytics
experience in research, engineering and product development, PNNL's
efforts in visual information analysis spans from basic research to development of innovative tools and technologies. After assessing a client's unique needs, our interdisciplinary teams create and customize visual metaphors and information
exploration tools. We have applied our diverse capabilities in software engineering, computer science research, feature extraction, cognitive psychology, statistics and mathematics, linguistics, and human-computer interaction to solve problems for industry and government clients. Contacts Community Science & Technology Seminar Series Let your imagination run wild through the world of science
and technology as you learn about the exciting new discoveries
happening right here in your own back yard! The Community Science and
Technology Seminar Series,
sponsored by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and , was launched to help the general public better understand and explore how science transforms our world.
Create an and resume. applicant profile Use our job search agent to receive email notifications of new PNNL job openings. University Recruiting and Internships For graduate and post doc opportunities, visit our page. university recruiting For undergraduate
internships and other educational programs, read about PNNL's Programs. Science and Engineering Education Working at PNNL
Technological advances continue to increase the volume, rate and complexity of data produced from modeling and simulation, high-throughput instruments, and system sensors. As a result, scientists and analysts are challenged with capturing and integrating high-throughput sensor data fusing and analyzing data in real time managing diverse data formats and
locations integrating heterogeneous software and hardware systems. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is aggressively working to solve the big-data challenge through research and development of data intensive computing technologies.
While we are proud of these achievements, ultimately it is the success of technology businesses and our community and region that gives us the most satisfaction. We are grateful for the opportunity to use our connections and skills in this kind of service, which demonstrates the value of this national asset: PNNL. 2008 , 2008 Excellence in Economic Development Awards. In many cases, this may build on PNNL-developed sensors or measurement ideas. However, it also includes the incorporation of commercial sensors and measurement instruments or
subsystems into integrated systems to meet client
requirements. We
also develop and
deliver specialized electronics designed to meet specific client requirements. System Integration Integrated systems are often required for applications that
involve robust measurement methods, automated data acquisition, and effective process monitoring and control. PictureThis contains hundreds of photos of
innovative technologies developed and research performed by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Photos can be downloaded as TIFF files. High-resolution
photos are available where possible. Use of images from
PictureThis shall not claim any
expressed or implied affiliation with, or endorsement by, Battelle Memorial
Institute, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory or the U.S.