refers to naturally occurring
fibrous mineral silicates -- which means it's a soft rock. The asbestos rock is mined and then crushed to produce the material we know as asbestos. Asbestos fibers are
categorized as (curly fibers) or (straight fibers). Chrysotile asbestos is classified as serpentine. Amosite, anthophyllite, crocidolite, tremolite, and actinolite are classified as amphiboles.Asbestosserpentinesamphiboles Use of asbestos became popular near the end of the 19th century due to its resistance to heat, electricity, and chemicals and its use continued through the 1970s. All types of asbestos fibers are associated with asbestos related diseases such as asbestosis, lung cancer, and mesothelioma, and when the health hazards became known, the use of asbestos declined. Contact Asbestos
Cancer: Mesothelioma The Mesothelioma Center online is dedicated to providing those who suffer from the --also known as --or from asbestosis, or who know someone who does, with the most up to date information and
support.cancer malignant mesotheliomaasbestos cancer Find out more , and the various types (pleural and peritoneal) of mesothelioma. about malignant mesothelioma Learn about the . Be sure to let your physician know about any prior asbestos exposure, as the symptoms are not unique. symptoms of mesothelioma can be very difficult, and cases of mesothelioma misdiagnosed are not uncommon. As long-standing members of ARCA (Asbestos Removal Contractors Association), we have been at the forefront of the industry for many years, helping to improve standards, define best practice, drive legislative change and promote safe and effective working. Control of Asbestos Regulations 2006 The duty to manage asbestos in buildings originally became law on May 21 2004. It's an involved process with a number of very explicit requirements. Asbestos fibers can be measured in urine, feces,
mucus, or material rinsed out of the lungs. A thorough physical examination, including a chest x-ray and lung function tests, may be recommended. It is important to note that chest x-rays cannot detect asbestos fibers in the lungs, but they can help identify any lung changes resulting from asbestos exposure.   Interpretation of the chest x-ray may require the help of a specialist who is experienced in reading x-rays for asbestos-related diseases. Other tests also may be necessary. The results (limited by incomplete reporting) are indicative of a marked synergism of asbestos with radi ation and with methylcholanthrene for peritoneal, but not pleural, mesotheliomas. Combined effects in mesothelioma induction were also reported for intrapleural chrysotile combined with radon 222 inhala tion in rats (102). In a study of the combined effects of asbestos inhalation
coupled with the inhalation of a particulate material, namely, quartz or rutile (a titanium dioxide polymorph), unexpected results were obtained (103). The amount of asbestos to which a person is exposed depends on – how many fibers are in the air and how long the air containing asbestos fibers is breathed. You can be exposed to asbestos by disturbing building insulation or other products with asbestos-containing vermiculite. As long as the asbestos is not released into the air, it is not
harmful. If it is not being
disturbed, there is very little exposure and very little danger. What does vermiculite look like? Pieces of vermiculite are brownish-gold and are about ½ inch in size. The long latency periods for asbestos-related disease further complicate estimated projections for the future. 5 Paul MacAvoy of Yale University Paul MacAvoy of Yale University has predicted that excess mortality due to asbestos through the year 2015
will range from between 154,600 and
450,600. His most probable estimate of death is 265,000. An estimate by the New York Academy of Sciences indicates that the social costs of death and disability flowing from asbestos exposure are estimated at between $39 billion and $74 billion over the next 25 years. Prior to the amendments of 1944, asbestosis was not a compensable disease. The remarkable finding that the induction of pleural mesotheliomas by asbestos inhalation is significantly increased by quartz was paralleled by the increase in pulmonary fibrosis. Quartz also increased the incidence of pulmonary
adenocarcinomas in com parison with
the two groups treated with asbestos alone. The role of quartz, an ubiquitous dust and a known pulmonary carcinogen, in the potentiation of pleural mesothelial carcinogenesis
remains to be further investigated. Quartz shares several molecular mechanisms with asbestos (104), and may also have affected the transport of inhaled fibers to the pleura. Both serpentine and amphibole asbestos types are included. There is no prerequisite for this course. Setting up the microscope, Koehler illumination, Micrometry, Particle MorphologyDay 1: Optical Crystallography Single polar; Measuring refractive
indices; Pleochroism; Dispersion StainingDay 2: Optical Crystallography Crossed polars; Birefringence; Sign of elongation; Extinction characteristics; Study of known asbestos fibers and other insulation componentsDay 3: Study of known insulationDay 4: Study of known insulationDay 5: Note: This course runs Monday-Friday with class ending at noon on Friday.