8 vols. New York: Cambridge University
Press,
1975-1986.The Cambridge History of Africa February, Vernon. . New
York: Paul
International, 1991.The Afrikaners of South Africa Gerhart, Gail M. . Berkeley: University of
California Press, 1978.Black Power in South Africa: The Evolution of
an Ideology
Golan, Daphna. . Boulder,
Colorado: Lynne Rienner, 1994.Inventing Shaka: Using
History in the Construction of Zulu
Nationalism Granqvist, Raoul, ed. . Seminar
Proceedings, No.
29. It was only
in the 1990s that organised
anarchism re-emerged with a succession of groups in Durban and Johannesburg, such as the Johannesburg collective that produced and in 1992 and
1993.
The (ARM), founded in 1993, represented an important step forward, as did the (WSF)
which replaced it in 1995. WSF incorporated a Durban collective that produced , and produced its own . Unrest Revolt Anarchist Revolutionary
Movement Workers Solidarity Federation
Freedom Workers Solidarity Anarchism,
revolutionary syndicalism and anti-authoritarian movements in South Africa, Lesotho & Swaziland Latest News from South African anarchists South
African anarchist statement on the WTC attacks The early years Anarchism and revolutionary
syndicalism in South Africa have a long history, although this history has been largely forgotten today. Anarchists and revolutionary syndicalists were in the forefront of socialist groups in early
twentieth-century South Africa. They played a role in the Social
Democratic Federation, founded in Cape Town in 1904,. In 1910, two revolutionary syndicalist groups were founded in Johannesburg, the and a section of the .Socialist Labour Party Industrial Workers of the
World (IWW) The (ISL), founded in
1915, was the largest
and most important revolutionary
socialist group in South Africa in the 1910s. From an early stage, the ISL was committed to IWW-style revolutionary syndicalism, and saw the abolition of racial oppression in South Africa as a central
revolutionary task. The ISL founded the first
African workers' union, the , in 1917, as well as three other
syndicalist unions for workers of colour: the , the , and the . In Cape Town, a new group, the , founded in 1918, founded a similar Sweet and Jam Workers' Industrial Union.International Socialist
LeagueIndustrial Workers of
AfricaClothing
Workers Industrial UnionHorse
Drivers' UnionIndian Workers' Industrial UnionIndustrial Socialist League Although most of the
revolutionary syndicalists went over to Leninism in the early 1920s,
founding the Communist Party of South
Africa in 1921, some syndicalist ideas lived on in the (ICU). This massive black trade union, which peaked with 100, 000 members in 1927,
had sections in Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. However, nationalist and liberal ideology, and corrupt and weak middle class leadership, helped destroy the ICU by the 1930s.Industrial and Commercial Workers'
Union of Africa In 1997, comrades
from the WSF made links with , and helped establish a short-lived Zambian WSF. The WSF also distributed materials in Zimbabwe and had contact in Tanzania. anarchists in Zambia In 1999, for a range of
tactical reasons, the WSF was dissolved, and is now
succeeded by two anarchist collectives, the and . The
two groups have recently co-produced , and write and
publish a wide range of anarchist
materials." Bikisha Media
Collective Zabalaza Books Zabalaza: a southern African
journal of revolutionary anarchism Organisations, Collectives & Publications A South African anarchist media project. Founded on the revolutionary principles of class-struggle anarchism in October 1999,
the Bikisha Media Collective has the following aims: Distributing anarchist literature, videos, and
music Developing
and publishing
new anarchist works
dealing with southern Africa We are NOT a political party or an
anarchist political organisation,
nor do we pretend to be. We are just a project working
towards the above goals.
That is our only role for now. Later? We'll see. . New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987.A Taste of
Freedom:
The ICU in Rural
South
Africa, 1924-1930 Bradford, Mary, and Richard Bradford, eds. . Niwot, Colorado: Roberts Rinehart, 1993.An American Family on the African Frontier: The Burnham Family Letters, 1893-1896 Bradlow, Frank R. . Cape Town: Tablecloth Press, 1994.Francis Masson's Account of Three Journeys at the Cape of Good Hope, 1772-1775
Breytenbach, Cloete. . Montagu,
South Africa: Luga, 1991.The New
South Africa: The Zulu Factor
Bundy,
Colin. .
Berkeley: University of California Press, 1979.The
Rise and Fall of the South African
Peasantry Castle,
Ian, and Ian Knight. . Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Stackpole Books,
1994.Fearful Hard Times: The Siege of and Relief of Eshowe, Anglo-Zulu War, 1879 Cohen, Robin, Yvonne Muthien, and Abede Zegeye, eds. . London: Zell, for the Centre for Modern African Studies, 1990.Repression and Resistance: Insiders' Accounts of Apartheid Cope, Nicholas. . Pietermaritzburg: University of Natal Press,
1993.To Bind the
Nation: Solomon
Kadinuzulu and Zulu Nationalism, 1913-1933 Dalby, David, ed. . London: Cass, 1970.Language and History in Africa de Klerk, Willem A. . London: Collings, 1975.The Puritans in Africa: The Story of Afrikanerdom Eilersen, Gillian Stead. "Historical Roots and Rural African Culture as Part of Bessie Head's Frame of Reference."
Pages 173-83 in Raoul Granqvist, ed., . Seminar Proceedings, No. 29. Uppsala, Sweden: Scandinavian Institute of African Studies, 1993.Culture in Africa: An Appeal for Pluralism Eldredge, Elizabeth A. "Sources of Conflict in Southern Africa, ca. 1800-1830: The 'Mfecane' Reconsidered," [Cambridge], 33, April 1992,
1-35.Journal of African History
Eldredge, Elizabeth A. . African
Studies Series, No. 78.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993.A South African Kingdom: The Pursuit of Security in Nineteenth Century Lesotho Elliott, Aubrey. .
Cape Town: Struik, 1991.Zulu: Heritage of a Nation Elphick, Richard.
. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1977.Kraal and Castle: Khoikhoi and the Founding of White South Africa Elphick, Richard, and Hermann B. Giliomee, eds. . Middletown, Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press, 1989.The Shaping of South African Society, 1652-1840 Engels, Dagmar, and Shula Marks, eds. . New York: Tauris,
1994.Contesting Colonial Hegemony:
State
and Society in Africa and India
Fage, John D., and Roland Oliver, eds. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1991.Mandela, Tambo, and
the African National Congress: The Struggle Against
Apartheid,
1948-1990: A Documentary Survey Johnston, Alexander. "South Africa: The Election and the Transition Process: Five Contradictions in Search of a Resolution," [London], 15, No. 2, June 1994, 187-204.Third World Quarterly Juckes, Tim J. . Westport, Connecticut: Praeger, 1995.Opposition in South Africa: The Leadership of Z. K.
Matthews, Nelson
Mandela, and Stephen Biko
Kaarsholm,
Preben, ed. .
Harare, Zimbabwe: Baobab Books,
1991.Cultural Struggle and
Development in Southern Africa Karis, Thomas, and
Gwendolen M.
Carter.
. 4 vols. Stanford: Hoover Institution Press, 1972-1977.From Protest to Challenge: A Documentary History of African Politics in South Africa,
1882-1964 Knight, Ian. . Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania: Stackpole Books, 1995.The Anatomy of the Zulu Army: From Shaka to Cetshwayo, 1818-1879 Knight, Ian. . New York: Sterling, 1994.Zulu: The Study of a
Nation Built on War Kwamena-Poh, Michael A., et al. . Essex, United Kingdom: Longman, 1982.African History in Maps Labour and Community
Resources
Project. . Braamfontein: Skotaville Educational,
1989.Freedom
from Below: The Struggle for Trade Unions in South
Africa Lelyveld, Joseph. . New
York: Time Books,
1985.Move Your Shadow: South Africa, Black and White Lock, Ron. . Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania:
Stackpole Books,
1995.Blood on the Painted Mountain: Zulu
Victory and Defeat, Hlobane, and Kambula, 1879 "Return
to the Malungwana
Drift--Max Gluckman, the Zulu Nation, and the Common Society," [London], 94, No. 374, January 1995,
39-65.African Affairs Makhura, Tlou John. "Another
Road to the Raid: The Neglected Role of
the Boer-Bagananwa as a Factor
in the Coming of the Jameson Raid, 1894-1895," [Oxford], 21, No. 2, June 1995, 257-68.Journal of
Southern African Studies Mandela, Nelson. . New York: Pathfinder,
1991.How Far We Slaves Have Come! South
Africa and Cuba
in Today's World
Mandela,
Nelson. . Boston: Little, Brown, 1994.Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela Mandela, Nelson. . 3d ed. New York: Pathfinder, 1990.The Struggle Is My Life Mandela, Nelson, et al. . Jurgen
Schadeberg, comp. Randburg: Ravan Press, 1994.Voices from Robben Island Marks, Shula. . Johannesburg: Ravan Press, 1986.The Ambiguities of
Dependence in South Africa: Class, Nationalism, and the State in Twentieth-Century Natal Marks, Shula, and Anthony Atmore. "The Problem of the Nguni: An Examination of the Ethnic and Linguistic
Situation in South Africa Before the Mfecane." Pages 120-32 in David Dalby, ed., . London: Cass, 1970.Language and History in Africa Marks, Shula, and Anthony Atmore, eds. . London: Longman,
1980.Economy and Society in Pre-Industrial South Africa Marks, Shula,
and Richard Rathbone, eds. . New
York: Longman, 1982.Industrialisation and Social Change in South Africa: African Class Formation, Culture, and Consciousness, 1870-1930 Marks, Shula, and Stanley Trapido, eds. . New York: Longman, 1982.The
Politics of Race, Class, and Nationalism in Twentieth-Century South Africa Maylam, Paul. . New York: St. Martin's Press, 1986.A History of the African People of South Africa: From the Early Iron Age to the 1970s Meli, Francis. . Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988.A History of the ANC: South Africa Belongs to Us
Miller, Carman. . Canadian War Museum Historical
Publication
No. 28. Montreal: Canadian War
Museum and McGill-Queen's University Press, 1993.Painting the Map Red: Canada and the South African War, 1899-1902 Moleah, Alfred Tokollo. .
Wilmington, Delaware:
Disa Press, 1993.South Africa:
Colonialism, Apartheid, and
African Dispossession Moodie, T.
Dunbar. . Berkeley: University of California
Press, 1975.The Rise of Afrikanerdom: Power, Apartheid, and the
Afrikaner Civil Religion
Morris,
Donald R. . New York: Simon and Schuster, 1965.The Washing of the Spears: A History of the Rise of the Zulu Nation under Shaka and Its Fall in the Zulu War of 1879 Mutunhu, Tendai.
"Lobengula and the Matebele Nation:
His Monarchial Rise and Relations with
Missionaries, Boers,
and the British," , 5, No. It is a powerful demonstration that a peaceful, negotiated path from conflict and injustice to cooperation and
reconciliation
is possible. Since 1994, the African National
Congress (ANC) has won landslide victories in each democratic election held. Elections
are well managed and fair, and the press unrestrained. Small opposition partiers are vociferous and enjoy full political freedom. In the
1999 elections
Thabo Mbeki, who had succeeded Nelson Mandela as head of the ANC, and
became South Africas
new president. Parliamentary
elections in April 2004 again resulted in a resounding victory for the ANC. President Mbeki was reelected. At the second round of post-apartheid local government elections in March 2006
ANC took
two-thirds of the vote. During the December ANC Conference, Jacob
Zuma was elected
Party President. Parliamentary and Presidential
elections are to be held in 2009.
South Africa is a country with
extreme differences in incomes and wealth. Thirteen percent of the population lives in "first world"
conditions, while nearly 50% live in developing country conditions.
In this latter group, only one-quarter of households have access to electricity and running water; only half have a primary school
education;
and over a third of the children
suffer from chronic malnutrition.
Poverty
levels have not reduced significantly and the burden of HIV/AIDS and unemployment remains high. Despite the enormity of the backlogs,
government
initiatives to meet these challenges have had encouraging results. The pro-poor reorientation of spending has contributed to improved social
development
indicators in a range of areas, particularly relating to access to services and education, and progress has also been made toward meeting some of the other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). However,
poverty, hunger, child mortality and HIV/AIDS-prevalence MDGs are unlikely to be met, if current trends persist. Economy Ultimately, the Griquas reached the Highveld around present-day
Kimberley, where they carved out territory that came
to be known as Griqualandalina.
horses Burgher
expansion
An account of the first trekboers. As the burghers, too, continued to expand into the rugged
hinterlands of
the north and east, many began to
take up a semi-nomadic pastoralist lifestyle, in some ways not far removed from that of the Khoikhoi they displaced. In addition to its herds, a family might have a wagon, a tent, a , and a few guns. As
they became more settled, they would build a mud-walled
cottage, frequently located, by choice, days of travel from the nearest European
settlement. These were the first of
the Trekboers (Wandering Farmers, later shortened to Boers), completely independent of official controls, extraordinarily self-sufficient,
and isolated. Their harsh lifestyle produced
individualists who were well acquainted with the land. Like many pioneers with Christian backgrounds, the burghers attempted to live their lives based on teachings from the . Bible Bible British at the cape As the 18th century drew to a close, Dutch mercantile power began to fade and the British moved in to fill the
vacuum. They seized the Cape in 1795
to prevent it
from falling into the hands of Napoleonic France, then briefly relinquished it back to
the Dutch (1803), before
definitely
conquering it in 1806. British
sovereignty
of the area was recognized at the Congress of Vienna in . 1815 At the tip of the continent the British found an established colony with 25,000
slaves, 20,000 white colonists,
15,000
Khoisan, and 1,000 freed black slaves. Power resided solely with a white élite in , and differentiation
on the basis of race was deeply entrenched.
Outside Cape Town and the immediate hinterland,
isolated black and white pastoralists populated the country. Partly as a response to the ten year
review, Government
launched the Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative for South
Africa (ASGISA) in 2006. One of ASGISAs main goals is to bridge the
divide between the so-called first and second economiesa metaphor
for the existing dualism. Its
analytical
framework derives from the binding constraints analysis, which was recently developed by a number of prominent international economists. The current development objectives are to eradicate poverty and
reduce inequality by: Accelerating the pace of growth, and the rate of investment in productive capacity; Intervening decisively to advance the involvement of the marginalized in economic activity through
expanded job creation and the
promotion of
sustainable livelihoods;
Maintaining a progressive social
security
net alongside investment in community services and human development;
Improving the capacity and
effectiveness of the state; and Building regional and international partnerships for growth and development. World Bank Group Program Program to date Between 1951 and 1966, the Bank made 11 loans to South
Africa, totaling US$
242 million, largely for expanding the countrys rail
and harbor
systems and for generating and transmitting electricity. The Bank ceased lending operations to South Africa in 1966 and the loans from that earlier period have been fully repaid. In
1991, the Bank resumed activities in South Africa through a comprehensive program of
economic
policy advice and capacity building. After 1994, the Bank Group continued to provide policy advice, but also limited lending and grants. In
addition, the Bank resumed project lending through the Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project in 1997, now closed and fully
disbursed. A
Technical
Assistance Loan for the Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project (MFMTAP) was approved in 2002 for an amount of US$15
million. The project closed recently. There are no IBRD loans at present. South Africa and Lesotho have jointly implemented the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project, with the South African side repaying the two World Bank loans associated with this project for a total disbursed amount of about US$90 million. The project transfers water from the highlands of Lesotho to the Gauteng region of South Africa. Several capacity-building activities were funded through
grants from the Institutional
Development Fund and infoDev. In
addition, the World Bank managed a
number of technical assistance grants from the
Cities Alliance for South Africas
cities.
program is one of the
largest with a number
of national and regional GEF grants for nature conservation, renewable energy, and the phase-out of toxic chemicals, for a total of just under US$80 million. However, overall export performance is
disappointing: exports as a share
of GDP are at around 25 percent, which is relatively low, while exports per capita are
barely higher than in 1960. SA Real GDP
Growth, Inflation and Unemployment While South
Africas success in stabilizing
the economy is
impressive, the low growth in jobs and investment leaves significant
room for
improvement. While investment has risen in recent years, due to
reduced government budget deficits and lower borrowing costs, domestic investment is constrained by relatively low levels of saving, and foreign investment is relatively insignificant, in particular in
green field investments. It would appear that investors
have been deterred by a range of
factors, including the high cost of skilled labor, exchange rate volatility, labor relations and crime. High unemployment is the most
important constraint to both
poverty reduction and accelerating growth in South
Africa. After the fall of
Apartheid, a perfect storm gathered to aggravate the unemployment levels from around 15 percent to the current 23 percent, while real wages were essentially stagnant. Challenges ahead
and Government priorities The British set about establishing large plantations in Natal, but found few inhabitants of the neighbouring Zulu areas willing to provide labour. The British confronted stiff resistance to their encroachments from the , a nation with well-established traditions of waging war, who inflicted one of
the most
humiliating
defeats on the British army at the Battle of Isandlwana in , where over 1400 British
soldiers were
killed.
During
the ongoing Anglo-Zulu Wars, the British eventually established their
control over what was
then named
Zululand,
and is
today known as KwaZulu-Natal Province. sugar Zulus 1879 The British turned to to resolve their labour shortage, as Zulu men refused to adopt the servile position of labourers and in 1860 the SS arrived
in Durban harbour with over 300 people on board. Over the next 50 years, 150,000 more indentured Indians arrived, as well as numerous free
"passenger Indians", building the base for what would
become the
largest
Indian community outside of India. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1990.Farmers,
Kings, and Traders: The Peopling of
Southern Africa, 200-1860
Hallencreutz, Carl F. "Thomas Mofolo and Nelson Mandela on King Shaka and Dingane." Pages 185-93 in
Raoul Granqvist, ed., .
Seminar
Proceedings,
No. 29. Uppsala, Sweden: Scandinavian Institute of African Studies, 1993.Culture in Africa: An Appeal for Pluralism Hallencreutz, Carl F., and Mai Palmberg, eds. . Uppsala, Sweden: Scandinavian Institute
of African Studies,
1991.Religion and Politics in Southern Africa Hamill, James. "South Africa and the
Commonwealth: The Years of Acrimony," [Surrey], 267, No. 1554, July
1995,
13-22.Contemporary
Review Hanlon,
Joseph.
. New York: Penguin,
1986.Apartheid's Second
Front: South Africa's War Against Its Neighbours Head, Bessie. . London: Heinemann
International, 1990.Tales of Tenderness and Power Hill,
Iris Tillman,
and Alex Harris, eds. . New York:
Aperture, 1989.Beyond the Barricades: Popular Resistance in South Africa Horrell, Muriel, comp. . Johannesburg: South African Institute of Race Relations, 1978.Laws Affecting Race Relations in South Africa
Houghton, D. Hobart, and Jenifer
Dagut. . 3 vols. New York: Oxford University Press, 1972-73.Source Material on the South African Economy, 1860-1970 Human Rights Watch/Africa. . New York: 1994.South Africa: Impunity for Human Rights Abuses in Two Homelands: Reports on KwaZulu and Bophuthatswana GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$) 5907 Foreign
direct investment, net inflows (% of
GDP) 0.8
Unemployment, total (% of total labor force) 23 Time required to start a business (days) 22 Internet users (per 1,000 people) (2004 figure) 78
Source: World
Development Indicators *Most recent data available 2001-2007Last updated: September 2008   South Africa is a country located on the
southern
tip of . It shares borders with , , , , , and (an independent enclave surrounded by South Africa).
The and oceans
make up a 1,550 mile coastline
along the
southern border of the country. South Africa Africa Namibia Botswana Zimbabwe Mozambique Swaziland
Lesotho Atlantic Indian The
origins
of modern-day South Africa date back to 1652 when traders landed at the southern tip of the continent of and established a stopover point
on the spice
route between Europe and the East. This stopover point founded the city of . Dutch Africa Cape Town After the seized the in 1806, many of the Dutch settlers or Boers founded their own republics in the
north. The discovery of
and in the
interior region of the country
stimulated economic growth and further subjugation of the natives. British Cape of Good Hope Diamonds
Gold Fast Facts Languague Listed:[IsiZul IsiXhosa Afrikaans The Boer War Following more than two decades of non-engagement in South
Africa, the World Bank
resumed
activities
in the
early 1990s through a comprehensive program of economic policy advice and capacity building. Starting in the mid 1990s, the Bank continued its program of policy advice and technical
assistance,
and also began
to provide funds for development projects. Although there have only been two loans funded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) (the 1997 Industrial Competitiveness and Job
Creation Project, for US$24.5
million,
and the 2002 Municipal Financial
Management Technical
Assistance Project, for
US$15 million), several environmentally focused projects totalling nearly US$40 million  have been
funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF). For more information on World
Bank-administered GEF projects, click . here For more
information on World Bank activities in South Africa, please refer to the Country
Brief . Then in an Australian prospector discovered gold in the Witwatersrand, accelerating the federation process and dealing the Boers yet another blow. population exploded to about 100,000 by the
mid- 1890s, and the ZAR suddenly found itself hosting thousands of ,
both black and white,
with the Boers squeezed to the sidelines. The influx of Black labour in particular worried the Boers, many of whom suffered economic hardship and resented the black wage-earners. 1879 1886 Johannesburg's
uitlanders The enormous wealth of the mines, largely controlled by European " Randlords" soon became irresistible for British imperialists. In , a group of renegades led by Captain
Leander
Starr Jameson entered
the ZAR with the intention of
sparking
an uprising on the Witwatersrand and installing a British administration. This incursion became
known as the Jameson Raid. The scheme ended in fiasco, but it seemed obvious to Kruger
that it had at least the tacit
approval
of the Cape Colony government, and that his republic faced danger. He reacted by forming an alliance
with Orange Free
State. 1895 Second Anglo-Boer War Boer
guerillas during the Second Boer War. The situation
peaked in when the British
demanded voting rights for the 60,000 foreign
whites on the Witwatersrand. Until that point, Kruger's government had excluded all foreigners from the . Kruger rejected the British demand and called for the withdrawal of British troops from the ZAR's borders. When the British refused, Kruger declared war. This lasted longer than the first, and the British preparedness
surpassed that of Majuba Hill. By June , , the last of the major Boer towns, had surrendered. Yet resistance by Boer continued for two more years with guerrilla-style battles, which the British met in turn with scorched earth tactics. By 26,000 Boers had died of and neglect in concentration camps. On 31 May 1902 a
superficial
peace came with the signing of the
Treaty of
Vereeniging. Under its terms, the Boer republics acknowledged British sovereignty, while the British in turn committed themselves to
reconstruction
of the areas
under their
control. 1899 franchise Second
Anglo-Boer War 1900 Pretoria bittereinders 1902 disease Union of
South Africa
Johannesburg
1890 During the immediate post-war years the British focussed their attention on rebuilding the country, in particular the mining
industry.
By the mines of the Witwatersrand produced almost one-third of the world's annual gold production. But the peace brought by the treaty remained fragile and challenged on all sides. Economic growth,
while not spectacular, is nonetheless robust and keeping an upward trend: between 1994 and 2003,
real GDP grew at an average of about 3 percent, which was about thrice the growth rate recorded
between 1980 and 1993.
The growth rate for 2004
- 2006 was about 5
percent,
before slowing down to a projected 3.8% in 2008 in the face of higher
fuel and commodity prices. (See
German South-West Africa in World
War I.)
Namibia A military expedition under General Jan Smuts was dispatched to German East
Africa (later
known as Tanganyika and
now known as ). The objective was to fight German
forces in that colony and to try to capture the elusive
German General von Lettow-Vorbeck.
Ultimately,
Lettow-Vorbeck fought his tiny force out of German
East
Africa into , where he surrendered a few weeks after the end of the war. (See German East Africa in
First World War.) Tanzania Mozambique
troops were shipped to to fight on the Western
Front. The most costly battle that the South African forces on the Western Front fought in was the
Battle of Delville Wood in . (See
South African Army in World War I.)1st
South African Brigade France 1916 South Africans also saw action with the Cape Corps as part of the Egyptian Expeditionary Force in Palestine.
(See Cape Corps
1915 - 1991)
Military
contributions and casualties in
World War I More than 146,000 whites, 83,000 blacks and 2,500 people
of mixed race (" Coloureds") and Asians served in South African
military units during the war, including 43,000 in
German South-West
Africa and 30,000 on the Western Front. An estimated 3,000 South Africans also joined the Royal Flying Corps. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1982.The House of Phalo: A History of the Xhosa
People in the Days of Their
Independence Price,
Robert M. . New York: Oxford University Press, 1991.The Apartheid
State in Crisis: Political
Transformation in South Africa:
1975-1990 Rasmussen, R. Kent. .
Cape Town: Philip, 1978.Migrant Kingdom: Mzilikazi's
Ndebele in South
Africa Reader's Digest Association. . Pleasantville, New York: 1989.Illustrated History of South Africa:
The Real Story Roberts, Jack. .
Brookfield, Connecticut: Millbrook Press, 1995.Nelson Mandela: Determined to Be Free Roux, Edward. . London: Gollancz, 1948. Reprint. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1964.Time Longer Than Rope: A History of the Black Man's Struggle for Freedom in South Africa Saunders, Christopher C., ed. . Sandton, South Africa:
Ibis Books and Editorial Services, 1994.An Illustrated
Dictionary of South African
History
Saunders, Frederick. . Ed., Phillip Thurmond Smith. Cranbury, New Jersey: Associated University Presses, 1996.Mafeking Memories Schneidman, Witney W. . CSIS Africa Notes, No. 156.
Washington: Center for Strategic and
International Studies, January 1994.Postapartheid South Africa: Steps Taken, the Path Ahead Shillington, Kevin. . Burnt Mill, United Kingdom: Longman, 1987.History of Southern Africa Sparks, Allister. .
New York: Knopf, 1990.The Mind of
South Africa: The Story of the Rise and
Fall of
Apartheid Stanley, Diane, and
Peter Vennema. . New York: Mulberry Books, 1994.Shaka: King of the
Zulus Stock, Robert.
. New York: Guilford Press, 1995.Africa South of the Sahara: A Geographical Interpretation Tamarkin, Michael. . Portland, Oregon: Cass, 1995.Cecil Rhodes and the Cape Afrikaners: The Imperial Colossus
and the Colonial Parish Pump Taylor, Stephen. .
London: Harper Collins, 1994.Shaka's Children: A History of the Zulu People Thompson, Leonard M. . Rev. ed. New Haven: Yale University
Press,
1995.A History of South Africa
Thompson, Leonard M. . New Haven:
Yale University Press, 1985.The Political Mythology of Apartheid Thompson, Leonard M.
. New York:
Oxford
University Press, 1975.Survival
in Two Worlds: Moshoeshoe of Lesotho,
1786-1870 United States Institute of Peace. Special Report, September
24, 1993. Washington: September, 1993..
South
Africa: The National Peace Accord van der Merwe, Petrus J. . Trans.,
Roger B. Beck. Athens: Ohio University Press, 1995.The Migrant Farmer in the History of the Cape Colony, 1657-1842 von der Ropp, Klaus. "'Outbreak of Peace' in South Africa?" [English ed.] [Hamburg], 45,
No. 4, December 1994, 383-91.Aussenpolitik Walker, Eric. . London:
Longman,
1962.A History of Southern Africa Walshe, Peter. . Berkeley: University of California Press, 1971.The Rise of African Nationalism in South
Africa: The
African National Congress, 1912-1952
Wilson, Francis. . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1972.Labour in the South African Gold Mines, 1911-1969 Wilson, Monica Hunter, and Leonard M. Thompson, eds. . 2 vols. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1969,
1971.The Oxford History of South Africa Worden, Nigel. .
2d ed.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Blackwell, 1995.The Making of Modern South Africa: Conquest, Segregation, and Apartheid South Africa comfortably borrows off-shore in its own currency, and at unprecedented low
sovereign risk spreads: a demonstration of investor confidence which is rare for emerging markets. Greater integration with the rest of the world resulted in a sharp turnaround in productivity
performance.
Exchange controls
have been gradually liberalized, and the average
(un-weighted) tariff on imports into South Africa was reduced from 22 percent to around 11 percent, while virtually all quantitative
restrictions
were removed. The s committed
portfolio in
South Africa has grown steadily to
more than $500 million in 23
projects. This is IFCs second largest portfolio in Sub-Saharan Africa, after Nigeria. IFC has marketed its investment guarantee services to
South African banks, development agencies and the Export
Credit Insurance Corporation of South Africa. MIGA actively promotes outbound investment in Africa by South African companies.
Consequently,
South Africa is MIGAs eighth largest
investor country, accounting for US$206.7 million or 4
percent
of the
Agencys gross exposure. MIGA The , the capacity development arm of
the World Bank Group, has been
active in South Africa and
recently South Africa became a focus country for WBI. A detailed capacity building program has been
developed focused exclusively on specific demands from stakeholders
in South Africa and building partnerships with
local institutions. WBI Country Partnership Strategy (2008-2012) The Bank jointly with IFC and MIGA,
and the South African Treasury
prepared
the (CPS), which
was
presented to the Board of Executive
Directors
in January 2008.
The CPS sets
out a
framework for
engagement with
South Africa for 2008-2012. It reflects, most
importantly,
South Africa's own development priorities as set out in the Accelerated Shared Growth Initiative-South Africa (ASGISA) and South Africas unique position in the region. The Bank is working closely with IFC, MIGA and all other development partners active in South Africa. Priority areas for World Bank engagement include:
urban
development; private sector development; building partnerships for Africa; social protection; land reform and agriculture; and public sector service delivery. Country Partnership Strategy Contact
Information World Bank
Office in
Pretoria,
South
Africa
Bibliography Adam, Heribert, and Kogila Moodley. . Johannesburg: Ball, 1993.The Negotiated Revolution: Society and Politics in Post-Apartheid South Africa Beinart, William. . New York: Oxford University
Press, 1994.Twentieth-Century South Africa Berger, Nathan. . Johannesburg: Kayor, 1982.Chapters from
South African History,
Jewish and General Berger, Peter L., and Bobby Godsell,
eds. . Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press, 1988.A
Future South Africa: Visions, Strategies, and Realities Bergh, J.S., and J.C. Visagie. . Durban: Butterworths, 1985.The Eastern Cape Frontier Zone, 1660-1980: A Cartographic Guide for Historical
Research Beukes, Piet. .
Cape Town:
Human and Rousseau, 1994.The Religious Smuts
Bickford-Smith, Vivian. "South African Urban History, Racial Segregation and the 'Unique' Case of Cape Town?" [Oxford], 21, No. 1, March 1995,
63-78.Journal of
Southern African Studies Bonner, Philip L. . New York: Cambridge University Press,
1983.Kings,
Commoners, and
Concessionaires:
The Evolution and Dissolution of the
Nineteenth-Century Swazi State
Bouch, Richard. "Glen Grey Before
Cecil Rhodes: How a Crisis of Local
Colonial Authority Led to the Glen Grey Act of 1894," [Toronto], 27, No. 1, Winter 1993,
1-24.Canadian Journal of African Studies As a result of
the
Treaty of Vereeniging the British and the Afrikaners (as the Boers became known) ruled together under the Union of South Africa. 1899 Apartheid
In , The National Party was voted into power and instituted a policy of - meaning . was a system of legalized racial segregation, legitimized
and white nationalism. While the White minority enjoyed the highest standard of living in all of Africa, the Black majority remained disadvantaged by almost every standard including
income, education, housing, and life
expectancy.