You can
pay for a membership with a check or money order made out
to "Department of Parks & Recreation" or by credit card. Please bring two forms of identification,
including a photo ID.   Gift Memberships
Recreation Center Gift Memberships are now available at 22 recreation centers Citywide.Give the Gift of Health! Online Survey Help us improve our recreation centers by participating in the online . Recreation Center Survey Types of Indoor Recreation Facilities - Recreation facilities that are owned and operated by
the Parks Department; paid membership is required. - Parks facility with programming operated by community-based organizations. - a Parks facility that either operates seasonally or offers a limited number of programs. indicates Accessible Facilities indicates Limited Access FacilitiesRecreation Centers Community Centers What's Nearby
Editorial Review In the beginning of the 1930s, the 1,255-acre site
which is now Flushing Meadows-Corona Park was still just
a swampy marshland with little prospect for development. It was not until New York Citys powerful parks commissioner, Robert Moses, envisioned reclaiming the site for the 1939 World's fair that the area was transformed into a famous fair ground and recreation site. The park has hosted two World Fairs, the first in 1939 and the second in 1964. The structures that remain from these two
fairs have become the foundation
for the growing park. In
particular the Unisphere, left from the 1964 Fair and now designated as a city landmark, has become a well-known symbol for the Queens. The current shape of the park is an oval stretching from Flushing Bay to Union Turnpike. Within the park, there are many places for relaxation and
recreation. Among the 124 acres of
natural areas are Flushing Creek and Bay, Willow Lake
and expanses of meadow and
marshland. The park is also home to New York City's largest lake: the 84-acre manmade,
freshwater Meadow lake. Aside from the New York Hall of Science, the Queens Museum of Art, Queens Zoo, and Queens Botanical Garden, the park also houses two professional sports facilities: Shea Stadium, home to the New York Mets, and the USTA National Tennis Center,
available for public play and home to the US Open. For good day and night vision an animal such as the
bobcat must
have an abundance
of both rods (light receptors) and cones (color receptors) in its eyes. The cones allow it to distinguish color, see fine details, and detect movement. The rods respond to changes in light intensity and add to its ability to
see at night. The combination allows the bobcat to lie motionless and see the slightest movement even in
low-light conditions. Being able to see the twitch of a field mouse's nose at dusk or in the pre-dawn light can mean the difference between eating and going hungry. Night vision also is improved by a special mirrorlike membrane called the (ta-PEA-tum), located behind the image surface (retina)
of the bobcat's eye. This membrane reflects light, allowing these night hunters to use low light twice, once on the way in and again on the way out. This reflected light is called eyeshine, and it is what makes some animals' eyes seem to glow in the dark.tapetum Bobcats can live in a wide variety of habitats, including swamps, deserts, and mountain ranges, and they feed on different
sizes of prey – small (mice), medium (rabbits and poultry), and large (domestic animals and deer). Bobcat will offer protection and expertise of this path and lend its knowledge in maneuvering your developing natural internal power. Bobcat teaches the ability of
being able to turn on/off creative forces in life. Always look for what is hidden on all levels and trust your senses for bobcat medicine is a powerful one with lessons on many levels Ancient Cultures lived within nature and revered every plant and
animal as part of the Great Spirit. Attachments Many factors can affect your loader purchase. What kind of
work you perform? What kind of space restrictions are you likely to run into? Which loader offers the attachments you need? Could you be more productive with a particular type of loader, loader option or loader attachment? Chances are if you've been looking at
loaders you're familiar with skid steer loaders and compact track loaders, but did you know that an all wheel steer loader with selectable skid steer mode is available from Bobcat? When choosing a loader balancing width, height, and weight restrictions verses sheer
power and performance is important. In general, the
larger loader has more power, but remember to consider
restrictions around:
...increase the number of working days in a year ...get more production in every work day ...reduce the amount damage to turf and other sensitive surfaces Your loader choice can make you more productive - ...reduced maintenance time - ...prevent the theft of your loader - ...prevent expensive catastrophic failures on your loader - ...have more productive employees - ...get more production out of your attachments - Be sure to visit section for even more ideas on how compact equipment can make you more productive - tell us your job and we'll help you get it done. Bobcats' shy nature and nocturnal
habitats keep most people from seeing them. Bobcats are solitary animals and do most of their hunting at night. The range varies with food abundance and may cover as much as fifty miles or as little as five. When rodent and rabbit populations are high, a bobcat may travel only half a mile a day while feeding. Females seldom overlap the ranges of other females, but they do overlap
those of males. Male ranges overlap
more often since they have much
larger ranges than the females. Both sexes are usually tolerant of transient juvenile bobcats moving through their territories. In fact, bobcats seem to try to avoid running into each other except during the mating season. Breeding usually begins in February, and
about fifty days later the young
are born in dens located in caves and crevices or under logs, barns, or
sheds. Litter size may vary from two to seven, but two is most common. Photo Dan Miller/DMD Images Master
chefs and staff of Steinway
Restaurant at the LaGuardia Airport Marriott Hotel,
winner of the Overall Favorite Taste Master Award, posed with Terry Osbourne of the Queens Borough President's Office and Bob D'Amato, master of ceremonies for the Queens Economic Development Corporation (QEDC) annual A Taste of The World event, at the USTA- Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park on Monday, April 14. Hailed as Queens' largest celebration of culinary diversity, "Queens Taste" featured more than 20 restaurants and fine eateries presenting samples of the food and beverages that are key to their success. The event was held at the landmark USTA- Billie
Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park on Monday, April 14 from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. Terry Osbourne, representing Queens Borough President Helen Marshall, welcomed the hundreds of participants and Bob D'Amato served as master of ceremonies.
Steinway Restaurant came out on top in two other categories: Best Appetizer and Best Alcoholic Beverage. Pasticcio Restaurant 80-28 Cooper Ave, Ridgewood, took the Best Entrée award and Cascon Baking Company, 7-04 149th St., Whitestone, won in the Best Dessert category. The Coca-Cola Distributors of Queens' beverage
won as the Best Non Alcoholic libation.