In
addition to using your discounted Disneyland California Adventure® attraction tickets and California Adventure discount attraction tickets, there are a variety of other theme parks in the Southern California area to enjoy. Build the imagination at in or head to the north for some movie magic at in . For some thrilling roller coaster rides, head or cool off after a day in the sun at . LEGOLAND Carlsbad Universal Studios Hollywood Universal City Knott's Berry Farms Knott's Soak City To Speak with a Ticket Agent please CALL: 1-877-633-9406 Corporate functions pick from special menus while regular dining offers a buffet for around $50 . Fresh pastas are prepared to your taste at a pasta bar while the buffet offers numerous chilled salads which include sea foods and
grilled vegetables and main dishes with chicken, beef, fish and pork.  Then there's a pastry table with various cakes and confections.      Imprinted matches with your reservation name on them used to await you at your table. Eeyore Necklace lide into a little 2-seat motorcar and hold on tight! Youl blast right through the library of Toad Hall and careen through the dark city streets. Watch out as your car maneuvers you through the countryside, narrowly avoiding trouble at every twist and turn. Careful of dynamite that may be lying about, or you may be in for an explosive experience! Oh, and be mindful of speeding trains. Fantastic rides and fun for all the family, it is served with great accommodation close by thus making it an ideal vacation getaway for all the family. was opened in 1971 has grown to include Epcot, Disney-MGM
Studios, and Disney's Animal Kingdom. These 4 themeparks operate within 47 square miles of entertainment, exilaration and laughter for any family vacation, and the resort offers 20 resort hotels for all your hotel accommodation close to all the action. Amenities · Americans with Disabilities ACT ADA Compliant · Air Conditioned · AM/FM Alarm Clock · ATM/Cash Machine · Bar/Lounge · Bath Tub · Business Center · Coffee Maker in Room · Concierge Desk · Copy Service · 24 Hour Front Desk · Email Service · FAX · Fire Alarm with Light · Gift Shop · Golf · Exercise Gym · Hairdryers Available · Ice Machine · High speed internet access · Iron · Guest Laundromat · Modem Lines in Room · Modem Lines in Room · Multilingual · Free Newspaper · Public Address System · Phone with speaker · Pool · Outdoor Pool · Parking · Radio · Restaurant · Room Service · Safe Deposit Box · Safe · Security · Sprinklers In Rooms · Outdoor Tennis · Turndown Service · Television with Cable · TV Remote Control · Satellite TV · Laundry/Valet Services · Vending Machines · Wake-up Service An entertainment complex open to the public, Downtown Disney, is located on one side of the hotel.  It
is the hub of night life with
live
music, arcades, shops, food and bars.  You
can live it up and walk back to your hotel room safely, without worrying about drinking and driving.    The hotel, itself, is designed in Craftsman Style of the early 1900's. Frank Lloyd Wright is cited as one of the architects bringing this style into popularity.  The hotel has a lap pool, a fun pool with a cool water slide, a gym, several restaurants and view rooms overlooking the the rides at California Adventure theme park. Wilkommen..."It's a Small World," according to a boat ride  tour which takes you throughout the world as animated characters dance and sing songs in their native tongues. To get there, you walk to the end of Main Street or hop aboard the fire car, horse-drawn cart or train and proceed. Sleeping Beauty Castle is at the end of Main Street, beyond a bridge.   Tickets   Disneyland tickets our available for your pre-purchase adventure packages to Disneyland and other attractions throughout California. It's a great service that you can benefit from. Get your
tickets before you go for this reason alone--when you arrive at
Disneyland, there's always a line for
tickets.  You can't escape it unless you pre-purchase. Believe it or not, a few days of the year they actually reach capacity, too, and if you don't have a ticket, you may not get to go.     California hotel stays include California Beaches, with offering the warmest beach vacations. Disneyland and Knott's Berry
Farm are  within the bounds of Orange County, one of the top Southern California vacations offering a large inventory of budget and luxury accommodations at . Southern California hotels Orange County hotels     Gussy up your little goblins in Halloween costumes and take the whole family to enjoy the merry enchantment of Halloween Time at the Resort haunting Guests from September 26 to November 2! It's a spooktacular celebration. Scare up your favorite little ghouls and goblins, and head over to an event so delightfully high-spirited that even the spookiest specters can't help but sing a happy tune Halloween Time at DisneylandResort!  From September 26 to November 2 with your Discount Disneyland Tickets or Discount Disney Park Hopper Passes, enjoy enough mysteriously enchanted Halloween attractions, entertainment, decorations, food and merchandise to make even the grimmest ghosts grin!Disneyland Through its partner, Advanced Reservation Systems, ARES Travel offers a comprehensive array of planning services for
groups, meetings and conventions. As one of the nation's leading producers of hotel reservations in major markets, we are uniquely positioned to assist your company or organization in the acquisition of sleeping and meeting rooms for your event. Many of these services are free of charge! · Learn More Make an Inquiry Hotel and Meeting Site Search and Analysis We understand how difficult it can be to find meeting and sleeping accommodations for your event. Don't forget to check out the Heraldry Shoppe, where you just might come away with your family coat of arms...or a REAL sword!The MatterhornShopping: Disneyland Attractions with Fewer Crowds -- Tomorrowland Here's a list of rides and attractions in Tomorrowland that shouldn't keep you waiting for long--- The Innoventions attraction is essentially a science museum...with rotating exhibits and all! If it were a free-standing science center, it would certainly be a "favorite," but at Disneyland Park...surrounded by more exciting things...its attendance lags. Getting into Innoventions is quick. Browsing through the exhibits can take as little or as much time as you want to explore them. For those who have fears about elevators, you may want to face them
head on or completely avoid this ride that could either be fantastic, or fearful, depending on your frame of mind.   The next time you step into an elevator, imagine how it would feel if the lights went out and the elevator cable broke.   Housed in Hollywood Tower Hotel, the Pueblo Deco architectural style is characterized by clean, geometric shapes common to Art Deco. Nightmare Before Christmas Jack on Black Poster (22 x 34 inches) s you stand along the banks of the Lost Delta Region, you gaze upward through the dense jungle foliage at the crumbling ruins of an ancient temple. Scholars have translated the crude runes carved above the entrance to read, "Beware the Eye of Mara!" Surrounded by packing crates, power generators and other elements that make up the archaeological expedition's base camp, you make your way slowly to the entrance of the foreboding temple. Music of the 1930s echoes eerily throughout the camp as an unearthly moaning - undoubtedly caused by the breeze passing through the structure's
entrance - underlines your own pounding heart. With neon spires reaching into the skyline and the roar of futuristic vehicles filling the air, this land is a buzz of activity, light-years ahead of the rest. Designed to be futuristic but at the same time, completely down-to-earth in landscaping (every element used in the area's landscape is edible) and productive, Tomorrowland is an on-going experiment that looks to the coming centuries we stand to face as well as salutes the accomplishments we've already enjoyed. There's a great big, beautiful tomorrow for all of us; this very popular land is a Disney-style sampling of that day and age. Those looking to plan a meeting, conference or event need look no further than the Hilton Anaheim hotel. The hotel offers 100,000 square feet of indoor meeting space, including two 28,500 square
foot ballrooms and 51 breakout meeting rooms. Two large outdoor sundecks are perfect for hosting a reception or meeting under the warm California sun. Our highly experienced catering and events teams will help you plan the perfect event. Enjoy two pools, a children's playground, volleyball court and sandy beach. Enjoy the exotic Japanese fish that inhabit this tranquil pond. Experience a 5,000-square-foot paradise inspired by the adventures of Peter Pan. Pilot miniature remote-controlled replicas of the famous Jungle Cruise boats in DisneylandPark (additional fee required). Feel the revitalizing mists of this unique natural wonder as you explore an oasis of tropical foliage, beautiful waterfalls and mysterious caves. Work out at this state-of-the-art fitness center.Cove Pools and Beach Koi Fish Ponds Safari Adventure Remote-Controlled Jungle Cruise Boats is a very cute shooting gallery (using laser beams, not bullets) that you'd undoubtedly
enjoy giving a try. (There is a small extra fee involved.) Aim your "gun" at one of the posted targets; when you get a "hit," you'll be rewarded with a humorous surprise.The Shootin' Exposition Frontierland features western-themed items, plus "general merchandise" in an "Old West Mercantile" setting. Adventureland features exotic merchandise in a "bazaar" type setting. Neither of these shopping experiences can be duplicated elsewhere in the park, and true shoppaholics should not miss checking out these stores!Shopping: You and your friends pass by a lobby with dusty furniture, an old suitcase and some artifacts of another era.  Led into a library, the mood in this room is set as the sights and sounds begin to get closer and more ominous. Passing through a series of boiler rooms, and dark and cobwebbed spaces, you'll follow a line to an elevator where a bellhop sets the stage and  you embark on a thrill ride to remember. We are located directly across the street and are the closes Ramada Inn Maingate/Saga Across From Disneyland Park 3 Star 800 S. Beach Blvd. Anaheim, CA 92804 Welcome to our first class, newly renovated hotel. Centrally located, it is close to Disneyland, Kno Ramada Limited Disneyland Area 1 Star 921 South Harbor Boulevard Anaheim, CA 92805 Located 2 blocks from the main entrance of Disneyland Resort and Disney's California Adventure with Ramada Limited Main Gate North 2 Star 2141 S. Harbor Blvd. Anaheim, CA 92802 Just a 3 minute drive to Disneyland Park and one block from the Anaheim Convention Center. Contemporary amenities and superior Disney service ensure the comforts and conveniences that make our Guests feel at home. Signature Disney service and a wealth of amenities that offer a Disney
lodging experience unlike any other include - 489 guest rooms, many with stunning views; business center and conference facilities; casual elegance and signature Disney service; and a wealth of amenities for an exceptional
Disney lodging experience! The scariest hotel in California opened May 5, 2004 at Disney's California Adventure.   Disneyland's California Adventure Tower of Terror Interior Pictures   As you get in queue to enter the Disneyland Twilight Zone Tower of Terror of ride, you first notice has been burned and looks nearly gutted out on its upper stories that are open to the sky. Anaheim, CA 92802 * Disneyland Park & Disneys California Adventure Park - 2 Blocks * Anaheim Convention Center - 1 Anaheim Travelodge International Inn 2 Star 705 S. Beach Blvd. Anaheim, CA 92804 The Travelodge Anaheim Buena Park, situated in the heart of Anaheim, is just minutes from Knotts Ber Anaheim/Buena Park Travelodge 1 Star 415 West Katella Ave. Anaheim, CA 92802 Welcome to Super 8 Anaheim, CA.  Carousel No   Thrill: .6   Theme: .8   King Arthur Carrousel Shows, Parades and Fireworks   The LaughingPlace Store now carries a Disneyland Attraction Posters from Sanders CC Gallery This week the LPP discuss Disney's first quarter earnings, their favorite Princess songs and Great/Not-Great on Disney animated films after Walt
Disney plus the Captain's Challenge and a trip to see David Copperfield. Concierge Style Service at No Extra Charge! Visit our website for more info!Advertisement   Disney's Paradise Pier Hotel Information The number of view rooms is as plentiful as the laid-back, beach-resort atmosphere at Disney's Paradise Pier Hotel. Guestrooms overlook the colorful Paradise Pier land of Disney's California Adventure park or relaxing views of the hotel's signature rooftop pool with its roller coaster inspired slide. Accommodations include mini-refrigerators and high-speed Internet connections. This boardwalk feel can be found in each of the deluxe Guestrooms as well. The Best Western Park Place Inn and Mini-Suites welcomes you to Anaheim, CA. Whether it is business or pleasure, you will be in the heart of Anaheim, directly across the street from the magic and splendor of the Disneyland Resort, and just a short walk to the Anaheim Convention
Center. Disney Park Hopper Tickets and various Southern California tours are available for purchase at our hotel front desk, where a friendly smile and a warm welcome are awaiting you. The many products we sell include theme park discount passes, e tickets, hotel reservations, car reservations and rentals, and airline flight reservations. About online booking: When you reserve rooms, plane tickets or other vacation or business products, you will need a credit card to reserve your room. All reservations that require your private information are sold only through secure servers. Available rooms and prices will appear for you to review after you select a date and location for your desired product. No representation is made or warranty given as to its content or
usability. User assumes all risk of use.
All-hotels.com and their suppliers assume no responsibility for any loss resulting from such use. Picture of 51 Disney's Paradise Pier Hotel Transport Links Greyhound-Anaheim - approx. 1.9km North-EastBus: Other Attractions Nearby Disney's Paradise Pier Hotel Disneyland - approx. 580m EastAmusement Park: Garden Grove Historical Societ - approx. 2.7km South-WestMuseum: Orange County Sports Hall Of F - approx. 3.3km EastMuseum: Anaheim Museum - approx. 3.3km NorthMuseum: The Block At Orange - approx. 3.9km South-EastShopping Mall: $149.00 Valid until: Apr 30, 2009 Everyone a kid again at theDisneyland/em> Resort! Because, from when you purchase a 3-DayJanuary 6 through April 30, 2009,Disneyland/em> ResortPark Hopper/em> Bonus Ticket, youl pay the kid priceven if youe only a kid at heart! So bring your whole family and experience all the fun, excitement and magic of both theme parksDisneyland/em> Park andDisney California Adventure/em> Park! Rub elbows with Goofy and his pals at this winningly whimsical buffet with many inventive culinary surprises. Goofy's Kitchen is a great place to throw birthday parties too, so if you are celebrating a big day, be sure and come party Disney-style! Plenty of great
choices for kids of all ages, including Mickey Mouse shaped waffles, omelet made to order, peanut butter & jelly pizza, Goofy's Hot Chocolate Cake, and fruit yogurt and yummy toppings. American, Vegetarian, Healthy Selections Disneyland Touring Plan: Step 4: Head to the LEFT side of the park early in the day If your group will
genuinely
be happy without riding Space Mountain,
then you're really lucky! When I go to Disneyland by myself, I can leave any time I want. With the grandkids along, I knew I'd have to physically last the entire day---and leaving wasn't an option.When my grandkids and I visited in August 2006, I made sure we rode the train to New Orleans Square rather than walk. If you're in my same situation (scared that you'll wear out before you've seen everything), DO take extra measures to protect your feet from tiring out. Photos of Beaches Anaheim, California Travel Information is California's top tourist destination. Attracting over 15 million people each year, families and friends come to experience the Magic Kingdom, character breakfasts, and the Southern California beaches that are within reach of this Orange County, California city. While many have ventured to Disney World Orlando, the gem is the original Disneyland. While it is a bit smaller than its younger counterpart, the thing people love about the theme park is the California climate. Mostly sunny, mostly pleasant and missing the incredible storms, humidity and bugs Florida recognizes, Southern California weather is just more enjoyable, making your trip to Anaheim and stay in its hotels a delight. During the
past 12 months, the Park  received
more than 2,200,000 phone calls. The most frequently called person: Mickey Mouse. The most frequently asked questions (apart from those answered by the recorded information line) relate to merchandise and collectibles.   Unquestionably one of the world's largest displays of fireworks, Disneyland utilizes the summer-night sky
as a stage for "Fantasy in the Sky" every evening from mid-June to early September. From the safety and comfort of a Star Tours shuttlecraft, watch through the cockpit window as you accelerate through the stars, jumping to light speed while your navigator droid, R2-D2, aids your captain in guiding you on a problem-free flight to the Endor Moon. Be careful if you get a new captain, though. Wee heard that with some of those first-timers the ride can get very bumpy.  Simulator Yes   Thrill: 1.0   Theme: 1.0   Please note that there is a per-night resort fee of $11.50 (including tax) payable to the front desk. Rates are based on double occupancy. Charges for extra adults may apply and will be due directly to the hotel. Please note, we sadly cannot provide mapping for all of our hotels although we are working hard to
improve this. oue invited to the Imagination Institute to attend the "Inventor of the Year" award ceremony, honoring Professor Wayne Zelinski for his amazing achievements in the scientific world. Professor Zelinski will be on hand to speak about his inventions and youl even get a sneak-peak demonstration of his shrinking/enlarging machine, as well as his duplicating machine! An exciting 3-D experience to be sure, so don forget to pick up your safety goggles on the way in. And don worry, the professor, despite his unconventional methods, will be sure to give a fun, informative, glitch-free presentation. His days of good-natured blundering, resulting in the shrinking of his family or even , (giggle), the audience are in the past e hope. · Check in time is 1500 · Check out time is 1200 · Time Zone is GMT-8 · 264 rooms. · 0 suites. · 9 floors. Guarantee Policy Credit Card Guarantee Required For All Arrivals - Deposit May Be Required During Special Events Cancellation Policy Cancellation policies vary by hotel. Since a hotel can set a cancellation policy up to 30 days prior to arrival, please review rate rules prior to booking to avoid possible charges.
Area Attractions 1600 SOUTH DISNEYLAND DRIVE
DISNEYLAND RESORT
ANAHEIM, CALIFORNIA 92802  
Rating: Mobil 4 Star, AAA 4 Diamond Guest rooms: 751 Year Built: 2001 Property Type: Hotel Mobil 4 Star Award Recipient, AAA 4 Diamond Award Recipient   Disney's newest Grand Californian Hotel is grand, indeed. Rated as one of the top hotels and spots to stay, look at the size of the huge stone fireplace in photo above! Disneyland /i> parkFantasyland Through the entrance to Sleeping Beauty Castle await the fairy-tale worlds of Snow White, Cinderella, Peter Pan, Dumbo, Mr. Toad, Alice and Pinocchio. Dedicated to the young at heart, Disneyland Park's Fantasyland brings to life a wonderful, magical world of make-believe; an enchanted land where dreams really do come true. Disneyland /i> parkMickey's Toontown Theme Park Review Coaster Expedition Volume 5 (3 Disc Set) n over-sized caterpillar will gladly take you on a journey down the very same rabbit hole that Alice fell through. Experience her adventures in the forests, shrink to nearly bug-size, meet up with Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum, keep a sharp eye out for the elusive Cheshire cat, and join the Queen of Hearts for a game of croquet. Careful, she a moody sort, and she may, on a whim, decide it "off with your head"! Disneyland® has long been a celebrated
Southern California amusement park, and for
good reason! Every trip offers a magical journey into the imagination that will make anyone feel young at heart. Avoid the lines by picking up your Southern California discount theme & amusement park tickets before going to the park and maximize the fun! Jeff Lange Remembers Epcot's Horizons 25th Anniversary Collectors Edition 2-Disc Set (DVD) limb into a 4-seat mine car and enjoy the fun as youe taken right through the cottage of the seven dwarves and into their dazzling jewel mine. But be careful from there, as you take an unexpected turn into the castle of the wicked queen, a master of magic and disguises, who devising a plan of poison and peril to rid herself of Snow White so she can become the fairest of them all. This service
is free of charge. · Learn More Make an Inquiry Contract Negotiation and Inspection Based on our many years of experience working in the Hospitality Industry, we are uniquely qualified to provide a comprehensive analysis of hotel property contracts. Our experience provides us with the knowledge to offer specific advice and recommendations in order to simplify potentially confusing and complicated issues such as cancellation and attrition. ou and three of your friends can hop into a wooden car, probably carved by master craftsman Geppetto, himself! Follow Pinocchio through his adventures as a wooden puppet, starting with his life on stage and lured by the thrilling sights and tales of Pleasure Island. Keep an eye out for Jiminy Cricket, whol try to help you in the right direction. Take the wrong paths and you could end up in a of trouble. Perhaps Geppetto will come looking for his lost boy, and who knows? Maybe with a little help from a wish upon a star and a beautiful Blue Fairy, his dreams will come true. Located just 4 blocks from the hotel is the Block & Garden Walk, offering movie theatres, several restaurants and shopping options. The newest Holiday Inn in Anaheim, built in 2001. A full service hotel with
friendly amenities of a resort! This hotel is committed to providing accessible facilities under the American Disabilities Act. If your accessibility needs are not met, please contact the Hotel Manager on Duty. Should you require additional information regarding accessible facilities for guests with disabilities, please call 1-800-Holiday (U.S. and Canada) or contact the hotel directly. For the hearing impaired, TDD service is available at 1-800-238-5544 within the U.S. /td> /td> The Disneyempire is as famous as the characters it's created, from Mickey Mouse, Cinderella, Dumbo to Peter Pan to name but a few. The Walt DisneyCompany is one of the largest entertainment corporations in the world. It was founded in 1923 by brothers Walt & Roy Disney as an animation studio. Today Disney has 10 theme parks and it has grown to be one of the largest Hollywood studios of its kind. Private Club 33 (pictured above) and Blue Bayou Restaurant are in the same building  in New Orleans Square.  Blue Bayou is open to the public while Club 33 is a private upstairs restaurant with its own intercom system to admit guests.    Pirates of the Caribbean ride passes by the Blue Bayou restaurant where no matter what
time of day it is, inside it is always night. Twinkling lights, fireflies and  the sound of crickets chirping create an atmosphere intended to mimic the feel of NewOrleans. The gesture was recently applauded by the American Pyrotechnics Association, a nationwide advocate of fireworks safety standards. Future plans include incorporating the new system at other Disney parks around the world.   To view the fireworks show, a technological marvel of lights, sound and sky blasts, follow Main Street, your entry point into Disneyland to Sleeping Beauty Castle. For a little movie magic, Universal Studios is one of the only Southern California amusement parks to combine the excitement of thrilling rides with the glamour of Hollywood. Just
moments away, you'll find one of the
first Southern California amusement parks, Knott's
Berry Farms! The heart pounding
thrills will have everyone cheering for more! Don't wait to enjoy the best of Southern California theme parks, get your Southern California attraction tickets today and start having more fun! The story-telling tradition is saluted in beautiful period murals depicting tall tales set in early California. The food harkens back to a simpler time with hearty home-style favorites dominating the menu. Recreation & More Recreation From pools to a modern fitness center, Disney's Grand Californian Hotel & Spa offers an array of recreational activities for the entire family. Take a dip in this peaceful pool oasis, complete with an artisan-crafted turtle fountain. Merge onto I-5. Continue for 12.7 miles until you reach the Disneyland Dr.exit toward Ball Rd. Merge onto Disneyland Dr.    Go E on East Airport Dr. towards Rental Car. Turn right on S Haven Ave. Take the CA-60 W ramp. Continue for 15.3 miles. Take CA-57 S towards Santa Ana. Merge onto CA-57S. Take Ball Rd. Pool closed for maintenance 9/2/08 - 9/10/08. Amenities · Concierge · Golf · Room Service · Laundry/Valet Services · AM/FM Alarm Clock · Coffee Maker in Room · 24 Hour Front Desk · Handicapped Rooms/Facilities · Elevators · Free Parking · Free Parking · Free Local Telephone Calls · Hairdryers Available · Modem Lines in Room · Meeting/Banquet Facilities · No Smoking Rooms/Facilities · Pool · Safe Deposit Box · Shops/Commercial Services · Television with Cable Rate Disclaimer Indicative rates are for search purposes only. If you're visiting Anaheim, Disneyland, the Convention Center, or taking in a night on the town at House of Blues in Downtown Disney, there are enough hotels with walking distance to make your life a whole lot easier. And one of our favorite
amenities is the bus service that
drives around to hotels, picking up guests for day trips to Universal Studios Hollywood. Very cool! Buses and trains connect you to L.A. and San Diego for the day, as well. And for the beach, there are buses and a beach train that runs in the summer, connecting guests to the beach--though some train schedules actually take Anaheim guests to San Clemente beaches. 1733 S Anaheim Blvd Anaheim, CA 92805 Greenwood Suites Anaheim Resort 777 Convention Way Anaheim, CA 92802 The Hilton Anaheim hotel is located in the heart of
California's famous Orange County, adjacent to t Hilton Anaheim 4 Star 11777 Harbor Blvd Anaheim, CA 92840 The Hilton Garden Inn Anaheim/Garden Grove hotel of California is located in the heart of Orange Cou Hilton Garden Inn Anaheim/Garden Grove With the ease of finding all your Southern California attraction tickets in one place, you'll have more time to enjoy your vacation. 4 Tickets to Sea World in San Diego, California! for details! 4 Pack Tickets to Sea World California Call 1-877-633-9406 2 Tickets to San Diego Zoo in San Diego, California! for details! 2 Pack Tickets to the San Diego Zoo Call 1-877-633-9406 3 Tickets to Disneyland California Adventure®! for details! 3 Pack Tickets to Disneyland® Park Call 1-877-633-9406 Add accommodations! Southern California Attractions Appeal to Everyone! For sun, fun and amazing adventure, there's no place quite like Southern California! Bring the whole family to see all of the great Disneyland California Adventure® and Disney® attractions that you love while
saving
money. In addition to discounted
Disneyland California Adventure® tickets, you'll also be able to find Disneyland® Park discounted attraction tickets, for double the fun! With the money you save on your discounted Disneyland California Adventure® tickets, you can stay longer, explore more, and get even more out of your vacation! That's why we offer this service and also purchase our tickets here. You will enter a secure server when you are ready to place your order.   Disneyland Tickets - Buying Tips Children under 3 get in free, and anyone ten years old or older pays adult admission for Disneyland tickets.  The lowest-priced, one-day Disneyland tickets are good for only one park. In other words, you can't visit Disneyland in the morning and Disney's California Adventure in the afternoon of the
same day.  Multi-day Disneyland tickets and one-day Hoppers allow you to visit both
parks on the same day. The great outdoors, with its open fields and mountains adorned with massive pine trees and thick brush plays home to hundreds of animals and creatures of all shapes and sizes; this could only be known as Critter Country. For the most part, this vast wilderness is untouched by the hands of man; where he
has come face-to-face with nature, the two live in harmony and every day is one of those Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah days. As evening comes, the cool night air is filled with the sounds of coyotes yipping at the moon and other critters searching for food - from soft mountain streams to the gnarled thorns of a huge briar patch. When Disneyland opened, Anaheim had five hotels and two motels with a total of 87 rooms. There were 34 restaurants in the city. Today, Anaheim boasts approximately 150 hotels and motels, with approximately 18,000 rooms and well over 450 restaurants.    More than 400 million guests have passed  through the gates of Disneyland Park since Opening Day, July 17, 1955. During the peak of summer, The Disneyland Resort work force includes nearly 14,000 men and women. Winter period employees total 12,500.  More than 5,000 gallons of paint are used each year to give the Park a better-than-new look. There are almost 20 million gallons of water in the ten bodies of water found in Disneyland. Disneyland
Attraction Poster on Canvas - The PeopleMover (from Sanders CC Gallery) e comes seekinadventure and salty old pirates, aye? Sure, yee come to the proper place! Climb aboard a boat with the rest of yer crew and set sail. Ahh, the relaxing lull of an evening cruise through New Orleans. But what that you hear ahead? A waterfall you say? And a skull seems to be talking to you? Listen close
"dead men tell no tales". You plunge from your leisurely float down into pirate territory, where youl find those rascals, plundering and pillaging about the town.     California Beaches photos and travel guide include award-winning pictures of beaches in California, cities, hotels and events.   California Beaches provide one of the most popular vacations in the USA.  Approx. 54% of the nation’s population lives within 50 miles of the shoreline, and more people are moving to coastal areas every day. That's why this California beach travel guide was designed to assist more than 85% of travelers in Calif., who are local residents.   It is no mystery why its beaches and cities hold great allure―just stand on the busy Los Angeles beach during a hot summer day to view the mass of people seeking relaxation and recreation. are ideal for weekend getaways, and popular, beautiful hilltop weddings in  overlooking the Pacific Ocean in Pismo Beach. Santa Barbara and Solvang Central Coast hotels   offers some of the most
beautiful national parks, cable cars, Golden Gate bridge boat tours, and Silicon Valley business center and culture.  San Francisco Bay Area     California Hotel Deals, Disneyland Tickets, Car Rentals & Air Travel After a fun-filled day in the Parks or a dip in the pool, come as you are and check it out. Yamabuki Enjoy the celebrated Japanese cuisine offered in this premiere restaurant that is the epitome in traditional and contemporary dishes. Presentation of the food is as lovely as the beautiful Japanese flower for which the restaurant is named. The streets of the Park are washed and steam-cleaned after the Park closes each day.   Disneyland uses 26 million hand towels in its restrooms a year. Additionally, the Park uses 1,000 brooms, 500 dust pans and 3,000 mops a year to keep the Park clean. Approximately 30 tons of trash is collected during a busy day. Custodial collects 12 million pounds of trash a year. Disneyland has an extensive recycling program in place. Recycled in one year: 3.1 million pounds of cardboard; 500,000 pounds of office paper; and 9,390 pounds of aluminum cans. The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort also offers free wireless high-speed Internet throughout the hotel, including in the Pacifica Ballroom, ideal for meetings and social functions. The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort sells Disneyland Tickets in the Disneyland Resort. Located just 1 mile from the Anaheim Convention Center. Other entertainment venues include: Anaheim Stadium/Honda Center, the Home of the Anaheim Angels, just 1 mile from the Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort, Downtown Disney and Disney's California Adventure. Close friends fear the worst, including entrepreneur Sallah, who has set up a tourist temple touring service with a small
fleet of
old military troop transport jeeps. Somewhere deep within the temple, Indiana Jones battles the forces of evil as time runs thin for anyone trying to escape the clutches of Mara. Do you dare enter the Temple of the Forbidden Eye yourself? Will you gain one of the incredible treasures and escape with Indy to revel in the next sunrise? Enjoy admission to both Disneyland Park California and Disney's California Adventure Park for 2 days, including visits to both Parks on the same day!! Ticket expires 13 days after first day of use Please note the ticket you purchase is ONLY valid in the year you stipulate in your departure date. Please note your ticket is an E-VOUCHER. NOT a hard ticket. DISNEYLAND CALIFORNIA CHARACTER BREAKFAST Enjoy Breakfast with your favourite Disney Characters. Character Breakfast can be
taken at the Plaza Inn on Main Street USA Disneyland Park. Minnie and friend's
Disney
Paradise Pier Hotel, Goofy's Kitchen at the Disneyland Hotel or
Storyteller's Cafe at Disney's Grand Californian Hotel. From bejeweled Santa
Barbara to surf crazy Santa Cruz, grape tasters and star gazers can sip a Napa wine, enjoy a celestial view or spot celebrities at Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.   California Beaches alphabetical list offers a wealth of resources that include videos and pictures of beaches, piers, sunsets, surfers, aerials images and sunbathing  information. A vacation guide that supplies top quality photos and useful information helps you plan your trip with a little help from your friends. Travel between the resort and most cities within France is between the 2 international airports of Paris. Other modes of transport
include the RER and TGV (trains) as
well as the Disneyland Resorts own train
station. opened on April 15, 1983 as a single
theme park, Tokyo Disneyland, but developed into a resort with the addition of Tokyo DisneySea Park, a shopping complex and a number of official Disney hotels. There are currently five official Disneyland hotels, with a sixth opening in 2008. Disneyland opened nearly 50 years ago in 1955 and welcomes the next door partner.  The new park features California and its regions and include the tallest, longest theme park water ride and several thrill rides.  For those hoping to do more than just experience the magic once or twice, jobs created as a result of the project are expected to be about 14,500 with 8100 of those in Anaheim.  New theme park jobs will primarily be entry-level positions offering training and career advancement opportunities. the happiest place on Earth      Photo © Debbie Stock  Can you believe that most of the 13 million people who enter Disneyland pass through the front gate and down Main Street Disneyland each year? That's a lot of pavement pounding.  Main Street is where the train departs
for a tour around the park, horse drawn carts offer a trip down the Main strip and dozens of shops sell everything from candy and clothes to blown and cut glass items, cameras and even watches.  It is also where you'll find lockers to keep your belongings in and customer relations.  On our visit, the women's restroom had several toilet stalls with cane seat covers you could look down the little holes through to see the toilet bowl below. As you can see, the stalls were very small on our visit. The men's facilities are ordinary and uneventful, I was told by a man.    Club 33 admission is private and must be arranged in advance (contact Disneyland for details). In Silicon Valley and San Francisco, the business center are beach close and often offer lower rates on weekends. Don't overlook those values that are available by searching all your options and booking the hidden gems. Sometimes you just need to book for conveniences. Business trips and conventions especially require locations close to your destination
or meetings, so you'll be more inclined to looke for amenities to make your trip a success. Whatever you select, we're glad you chose to book with us. Our California beaches site specializes in California information and vacations. We strive to provide accurate, up-to-date information and are always seeking to
improve your understanding of beautiful California and its beaches.