Avoid unnecessary
visits to
the emergency room Improve your health Receive the primary care you need,  regardless of
your insurance or ability to pay Get information on housing and jobs Please call us at 1-630-233-5134 We're open Monday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.(by
appointment only). Our services are free and confidential. The Alexian
Brothers Community Health Access Program Center is located: 1515 E. Lake St. > > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us Alexian Brothers Values Alexian Brothers Values We
manifest God's presence in the world by a concerned approach and competent care of those
we serve.Compassion. Because we believe that all individuals are created in God's image. Therefore, we treat them with respect.Dignity of the Person. We serve the sick, aged, dying and unwanted of all socio-economic levels, especially the poor.Care of the Poor. We promote healing of the whole person (body, mind and spirit) through physical, psycho-social and spiritual care of the whole
person.Holism. We collaborate with those who share our ministry in carrying out Our
mission.Partnership.   Since its inception, Senior Neighbors has been connecting people with resources to ensure their continued health, wellness, vitality, involvement in the community and engagement in life. Our mission to enable older
people to maintain an independent lifestyle is as critical today as it was in 1960. With four senior programming centers and community-based social, arts, education, recreation, health, employment, training and volunteer opportunities, Senior Neighbors is built on partnerships. Our services are supported by the United Way , Allied Arts of Greater Chattanooga , City of Chattanooga , Community Foundation of Greater Chattanooga , City of
Soddy-Daisy , Hamilton County , Southeast Area Agency on Aging and Disability , Senior Service
America , and Corporation for National and Community Service . The goal of Patient Safety is to reduce mortality and morbidity and to improve the identification, analysis and reduction of risks, which could have or has caused preventable patient injury and impairment of patient safety. Patient safety
includes ongoing analysis and intervention, utilizing both internal and
external information to prevent error occurrence and to maintain and improve patient safety throughout the medical center. Patient safety is designed to reduce medical errors and unsafe conditions through a systematic, coordinated and continuous approach to
improve patient safety. It is the responsibility of all individuals
within the organization to seek opportunities that will continuously improve the safety
of patient care, utilization of resources, and organizational functions. What is the goal
of Quality Improvement Initiatives? The goal of quality improvement is to provide a coordinated and continuous system
approach to
provide
safe and
reliable healthcare that avoids unneeded and harmful interventions and eliminates preventable complications. ‘Study buddies’ Energize Young Students, Helping Them Continue Catholic Education Young children often look up to older kids, and the dynamic that occurs when they interact can be powerful. Just ask Pat Cornfield. A resource teacher with Alexian Brothers Health System’s Interfaith Parish
Support Services (IPSS), he has spearheaded the development of an after-school “study buddy” program in which eight students from Montini Catholic in Lombard , Ill.   New Ministry-Fund Grants Target Wide Range
of Community Needs Striving to address unmet needs in communities served by the Alexian Brothers, the Board of Directors of
the Alexian Brothers Ministry Fund has earmarked more than $94,000 for initiatives ranging from free dental care for the poor to the prevention of suicide among young people... More   Find information on offered through The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network clinical trials Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow Is it really
all about
the hair? I am a breast cancer survivor and I often tell others about my experience. One of the first questions I usually
get is, did you loose your hair?   One of the things The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network can do to help minimize the trauma of loosing your hair
during treatment is to offer a solution... read more about "Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow." The Patient and Family Alliance in Action! The Patient and Family Alliance (PFA) in partnership with Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is making great strides towards making our oncology programs the best in the Northwest. Learn more about PFA Online Support Community Join our online forums through . This forum is a great way to connect with others who are going through a similar experience. It works much like a chat room where you can interact with others. We monitor this room and only
those who are approved gain access. This program is designed to offer high quality care to patients suffering from wounds that have not responded to traditional treatment. New Center Offers Advanced Treatment for Patients with Slow-healing Wounds Alexian Brothers Hospital Network has opened a wound care center that offers state-of-the-art treatment for diabetics with foot ulcers and for other patients with slow-healing wounds. The Alexian Wound Healing Center uses evidence-based algorithms, or proven, step-by-step procedures, modified as necessary to fit the unique needs of
each patient. To achieve our mission we provide a variety of services to enhance the mental, physical and creative well being of older adults,
including: Programming at four community centers, including foreign language classes, dance
instruction, art
classes, music, card playing, quilting, bingo, health screenings and exercise RSVP (Retired & Senior Volunteer Program)
SCSEP (Senior Community Service Employment Program) Fine & Performing Arts Programs
In January, Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health completed a 3 day, 4 reviewer, random, unannounced audit conducted by DHS' Bureau of Licensure and Accreditation and the ASO (Administrative Service Organization). The results validated our comprehensive and effective clinical programming, our strong documentation practices and
our dedication to the treatment of those who suffer from a mental illness. Our solid
documentation of services provided resulted in a score that is one of the highest in the state and our "return" amount was
less than one half of one percent of
our total State annual billings. As your corporate wellness partner, we are committed to the health of your organization.
The flu season typically begins in October and continues through March. Dates will fill fast so take advantage of pre-season scheduling.Call 847-385-7170 or email Wellness@alexian.net today for more information or to schedule a convenient onsite flu clinic.   Vaccinations are also available at all of our SEVEN Occupational Health Clinics as well as our Travel Health Clinic in Schaumburg. Knowing that your child is near, safe and happy while
in childcare allows you to focus on your work. Alexian Brothers Child Care Center provides a nurturing environment for children of Alexian Brothers Medical Center staff and local families who are looking for high-quality child care programs with small group sizes and low child-to-teacher ratios. We provide care in a stimulating and enriching environment for infants, toddlers, preschoolers, and
kindergarteners who learn through discovery and play. Our Center is open Monday through Friday
from 6:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. We offer full-time, part-time and variable schedules to meet the needs of today's busy families. Our specific programs include: children from 6 weeks of age through 3 years of ageInfant/toddler care: Interfaith Parish Support
Services works to foster healing and wholeness to those who need it through
professional counseling, education
services and healthcare guidance within the framework of the mission of the Alexian
Brothers.   Alexian Team Helps Parish Cope with Young Boy’s Tragic Death When a 3-year old boy drowned in a back-yard swimming pool, families in Christ the King Parish in Lombard , IL , were distraught. “These
types of tragedies catch us by
surprise, and people are not always able to deal with the
consequences,” says Rev. Mike Ideran, Director of Interfaith Parish Support Services, an
Alexian Brothers Health System ministry that provides school social workers, counseling and other services to local congregations. Mickey Tovey, principal of Christ the King Parish ,
contacted
Mariann Smith, an IPSS social worker assigned part-time to the school, to tell her about the accident and to request assistance with grief counseling for the school’s 100 students and their families...  > > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us
St. Alexius Province - Germany St. Alexius Province - Germany St. Alexius
Province - Germany This province has houses in ten larger cities in Germany. The photo to the right is the Mother house located in Aachen, which is near Cologne. The brothers have been living at this location since 1334. The Alexian brothers operate
psychiatric hospitals (to provide treatment for addictions and the neurologically ill), general medicine, senior centers for the elderly, and
workshops for the
handicapped. The
St. Alexius Province - Germany web site will introduce and inform people
about the Alexian Brothers monastic way of life. In the past, as well as today,
the Alexian Brothers
feel a close bond to God and are devoted to people in the spirit of Jesus. This web site will also acquaint you with the source of the Alexian Brothers order, their basic spiritual concept and the work of their everyday life. Alexian Brothers Immediate Care Centers and Diagnostic Imaging Centers About Us It's tough to predict what can go wrong-whether it's your son's playground injury, your spouse's flu symptoms, your grandfather's asthma
or your own backyard
accident. Knowing that Alexian Brothers Immediate Care Centers are close to home offers peace of mind. Here are some of the ways we serve you and your family: Acute care for all minor illnesses and injuries Hours for Addison, Hanover Park
and Palatine Immediate Care sites:     Monday - Friday 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.    Saturday & Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Hours for Mount Propsect Immediate Care site:    Monday - Friday
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Modern facilities with the latest technology
Language translation capabilities Special corporate health services for local employers Convenient Immediate Care locations
in Addison, Hanover Park, Palatine, Mt. Prospect ready to serve you. Convenient Diagnostic Imaging locations in Addison, Mount Prospect, and Schaumburg. What services are offered at Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital? A new robot is being introduced at Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital in Elk Grove Village to help stroke survivors learn to walk again. The KineAssist gait and balance training system helps
physical therapists work safely and more effectively with patients. TM Low Vision Program We offer thorough evaluations and a full range of interventions to help you
adjust to vision loss and improve your daily functioning through our partnership with The Chicago Lighthouse for People who are Blind or Visually Impaired. The Chicago Lighthouse at Alexian Brothers is the first Chicago Lighthouse satellite program to offer comprehensive, multi disciplinary low-vision services. The program offers examination by low-vision optometrists, training in low-vision assistive devices, occupational therapy,
psychological and social services, driving evaluation and employment services.
the Plague. In a single generation it undermined the very foundations of European society.
Family ties became meaningless as the healthy fled in terror from their stricken kin. The Brothers stayed, risking their lives, to nurse the victims of the
plague, to care for them and bury them when they died. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Women's Services Alexian Brothers Women's Services Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is committed to the unique and special needs of women-offering family centric care and state-of-the-art nurseries staffed 24/7 by neonatologists and supported by pediatric specialists at both St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian Brothers Medical Center. Alexian Brothers Hospital Network-where families are born. While fighting for her life, ABMC nurse works to save others from
breast cancer
Robin Troiani is on a mission, and she knows
her time is limited. Troiani, a nurse at Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove
Village, Ill., wants to help other women avoid what she has experienced since she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1999. After undergoing a radical mastectomy and chemotherapy, she thought she might have beaten the disease, but it later resurfaced and metastasized to her lungs... Alexius Medical Center carries out the healing mission of the Catholic Church as an Alexian Brothers ministry by identifying and developing effective responses
to the health needs of those we are called to serve.     Alexian Brothers to Open New Children’s Hospital on St. Alexius Medical Center Campus The Alexian Brothers Hospital Network has delivered a wide range of top quality pediatric services for some time.  As the communities we serve have grown in population and their medical needs have evolved, we are moving forward to build a state of the art facility to house many of these services on
the campus of St Alexius in Hoffman Estates... More
    Stroke
Association Recognizes St. Alexius Medical Center St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman
Estates, Ill., has received the American Stroke Association's Get With The GuidelinesSM
(GWTG) - Stroke Initial Performance Achievement Award. The award recognizes the medical
center's commitment and success in implementing a higher standard of stroke care by
ensuring that
stroke patients receive treatment according to... Alexian Brothers Corporate and Community Wellness is committed to helping organizations control escalating healthcare costs.  Billions of dollars are spent annually on healthcare and much of the spending could be avoided.  Ninety percent of Type 2
diabetes and 80 percent of coronary heart disease could be avoided or delayed with
regular physical activity, quitting smoking, and reducing stress.  (SOURCE:  World Health Organization, 2005)  Specific types of cancers, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease are linked to lifestyle behaviors and can prematurely diminish the health and productivity of individuals.  About Alexian Brothers Medical Group We offer same-day appointments  When
you're sick, we
understand that you need to be seen as soon as possible. When you call  the office of an Alexian Brothers Medical Group physician we help you evaluate your condition and help you be seen by a physician as soon as  possible. to make an appointment.That's why we offer same-day appointments. Find a location We offer the Alexian Brothers Medical Group Nutrition & Disease Prevention Center Many people are beginning to understand how important it
is to be proactive where their health is
concerned. At Alexian Brothers Medical Group, our proactive attitude has led to the creation of a Center that addresses healthy nutrition and weight management, as well as early detection and disease prevention.
We accept all major insurances Friendly and well-informed personnel will be very happy to assist you with your insurance
needs and requirements. We believe that as members of the Church, we are committed to the values and principles expressed and/or implied in the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Facilities as approved by National Conference of Catholic Bishops (11-19-71.) We believe that cooperation
among the Alexian Brothers, civic and Church authorities,
and those in partnership with our mission is essential. We believe that it is necessary for all who collaborate with us in Catholic Health Care to be professionally competent and to have an understanding of our philosophy and mission. This
center will provide a medical home for the area’s children and offer our pediatricians and pediatric specialists a superior facility in which to practice. Inpatient and select specialty care is also available at Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village. Our physicians, nurses and staff are highly trained in pediatric
medical care to ensure that your child's needs are met. Whether your child is facing the inevitable bumps of growing up or a more serious health challenge, we are here to help. Alexius, a fifth century saint who was devoted to the poor and sick, as the patron of their first chapel. With the passing of time, reference was made to them as "Alexian Brothers" by the people they served. One of the first communities of Alexian Brothers was in the
historic city of Aachen, Germany. In surrounding villages and towns, smaller, loosely formed communities were established primarily in the Low Countries and the
Rhineland. In 1472, Pope Sixtus V approved and confirmed the Alexian Brothers as a
religious community under the rule of St. We are partnering with Harper College to offer college-level classes at Alexian
Brothers Center for Mental Health for your
convenience. Read more about how to take a Harper College class at Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is the nation's largest
grassroots organization for people with mental illness and their families... ambulatory-care addition houses the Hoffman Estates, Ill., hospital's partial... More Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Awarded Gold Seal of Approval for Healthcare Quality Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health
Hospital has become the first hospital in the nation to
have been awarded Disease-Specific Care (DSC) Certification in four separate psychiatric specialties: Depression, , , and . The designation has earned Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital the Gold Seal of
Approval for healthcare quality from the Joint Commission... Chemical Dependency Eating Disorders Self Injury TM More Puppet
Therapy Helps Patients to Express Thoughts, Feelings Many people struggle to express their thoughts and feelings during
behavioral health therapy.  Children, for example, might be too young or might lack the verbal skills to communicate effectively... More At Alexian Rehabilitation
hospital our certified physical and
occupational therapists are specially trained to treat men and women with either primary or secondary lymphedema. We customize each care plan to help you take
charge of your lymphedema so you can continue to enjoy an active lifestyle.   Medical Surgical Rehabilitation Medical Surgical Rehabilitation at Alexian Brothers Medical Center and St. Alexius Medical Center provides therapies in the acute
care hospital setting to help you restore functioning and prepare you for the next level of care. New Year! Welcome to the Congregation of Alexian Brothers of the Immaculate Conception Province - American Province The Congregation of Alexian Brothers is a lay, apostolic Catholic Order whose Brothers,
bound together by religious vows, dedicate themselves
primarily to live in community and to
participate in the ministry of healing in the tradition of the Roman Catholic Church. For almost
800 years, the Alexian Brothers have
cared for the sick, the aged, the poor and the dying. The basic Judeo-Christian beliefs that inspired the founders of this
Catholic religious congregation continue to sustain its ministry today. This heritage is
espoused by the
governance, management and entire health care team throughout the Alexian Brothers Health
System in their mutual commitment to promote the physical, mental, spiritual and social well-being of all individuals served through the health care ministry. > > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us Alexian Brothers Articles of Faith Articles of Faith We believe that life is a sacred gift from God. Each person is created in the Divine image with a right of conscience and from conception until death is
called to eternal
union with God. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Center for Spiritual Care Centers for Spiritual Care Alexian Brothers Health System's Centers for Spiritual Care For over 30 years, Alexian Brothers Health System (ABHS) has been a dedicated ministry that serves not only the physical, but also the psychological and spiritual needs of those entrusted to its care. Scientific and
technological advances have enhanced the ability to care for the
body. Spiritual Care is one of the clearest, visible expressions of dedication to the Congregation of Alexian Brothers' Charism and is central to ABHS's identity as a Catholic healthcare provider. Chaplains have been present to comfort patients and their families in times of crisis, give thanks in times of joy, testify to the love of God, and at times guide our family of physicians, nurses and employees in matters of the spirit. Our
long-term goals
remain constant: To strengthen spirituality in the way we deliver care To strengthen
spirituality in our workplaces The Center for Spiritual
Care maintains effective and ongoing
communication with clergy in the community, and actively supports the health promotions efforts of local churches in all denominations and faith traditions. The acquisition of one of the nation's leaders in interventional pulmonology makes the Alexian Hospital Network the first in the Chicago area to establish this service that
offers a higher level of care through advanced endoscopic and pleural procedures. The Alexian Sleep Health Center is premier in the Chicago area in both quality and quantity. The sleep staff includes a nationally recognized pediatric sleep specialist who has allowed the program to develop high quality service in the important and
underserved area of pediatric sleep. The Alexian Sleep Health Center was founded to help physicians and other healthcare professionals diagnose and treat patients with sleep disorders including sleep apnea, narcolepsy, restless legs
syndrome and
insomnia. A fire destroyed their house in Aachen in 1656, which they rebuilt into one of the first hospitals for the mentally ill. Then came the French Revolution in 1797, with all religious orders abolished by law with the exception of the Ursuline teaching Sisters and nursing orders. Laws limited
the Brothers to twelve men, and their property and administration came under government control. By 1812, after the
Concordat with Napoleon, only three Brothers were left in the community of
Aachen. Torn, and under suspicion by the government, the
Brothers were forced into secular life-style until 1856. Brother Dominic Brock, in 1854, began to rebuild the decimated community just in time to send his men to battlefields and field hospitals in the wars of 1864, 1866, and 1870. Pediatric Services About Alexian Brothers Children's Hospital Pediatric Services When your child is ill or needs immediate
medical attention, you want to know that you are getting the best care available. We are known for providing the highest standard of healthcare. Currently, Alexian Brothers Children's Hospital is located on the fourth floor of St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates. The mission of Alexian Brothers Respiratory Services is to
improve quality and expand services in respiratory
medicine. The first initiative was the establishment of The Lung Diagnostic Center, which provides advanced diagnostic testing services, including pulmonary function testing, integrated cardiopulmonary exercise testing and upper airway evaluation for vocal cord dysfunction syndrome. Over the last two years, the Alexian Hospital Network has established a multidisciplinary lung cancer team that reviews
cases and strives to ensure that patients are evaluated and treated
in a manner supported by national guidelines. A newly developed CT lung cancer screening program
has served hundreds of patients and includes spirometry screening for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian
Brothers Home Health Care Alexian Brothers Home Health Program Individuals who qualify for home care receive continuing, holistic care from a multidisciplinary team that believes in advocacy and quality of life for patients. The ultimate goal is for the patient to achieve independence and return to previous health status.
Telethinking Allows Remote Monitoring of At-Home Patients' Vital Signs Alexian Brothers Home Health Care uses a high-tech
wellness
monitoring system that allows nurses, physicians and family members to keep tabs on the physical condition of at home patients from a distance, potentially avoiding medical emergencies...  More The Brothers remain committed to the healing ministry and the
community,
as they did more than seven centuries ago. The names and faces may change, by the spirit of love and sacrifice remains. There is still much work to be done To learn more about Alexian Brothers history in the
United States, please go to Immaculate Conception Province Ministries. Seal of the Congregation of the Alexian Brothers The
seal of
the Congregation is divided into three fields. In each field is a symbolic representation of the end or work of the Institute. The upper half shows on a red background the Pelican nourishing its young with her heart's blood - a symbol of the self-consuming sacrifice of Christian Charity. The two spades on the black blackground, in the lower half, is a
remembrance of former activity of the
Alexian Brothers in burying the dead in time
of calamity. Alexian Brothers Health System Introduces Lung Scans She began smoking when
she was 14 years old. Now 39, she was thinking
about quitting - and was concerned about how much she might have hurt her lungs by
smoking for the last 25 years.  Her doctor referred her to Alexian Brothers Hospital Network's new Alexian Lung Scan program... > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us
Crest of the Immaculate Conception Province The Crest of the Congregation of Alexian Brothers Immaculate Conception Province is a modified version of the Seal of the Congregation of Alexian Brothers. The upper
half shows a pelican nourishing her young with her heart's blood - a symbol of the self-consuming character of real Christian love. The two spades
represent the burial work performed by early Brothers in times of calamity. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers
Hospital Network The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers is a
healthcare system approach to oncology services at St. Alexius Medical
Center and Alexian Brothers Medical
Center. The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is an Oncology Clinical Institute that is inspired by the values that shape the Alexian Brothers philosophy of care and a desire to provide cutting-edge, innovative treatment. Our mission is to offer services to meet the needs of cancer patients and their families at Alexian Brothers Medical Center and St. Alexius Medical Center. We are a comprehensive treatment care center utilizing cutting-edge technologies including 64-slice Computed Tomography (CT) Scan, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) CAT Scan and Breast
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) as diagnostic tools. A good night's sleep
is just as important to our overall health as diet and exercise. In addition to feeling refreshed and alert, sleep plays a key role in helping us fight disease. A lack of sleep may cause you to: Lose concentration at work or school Perform less efficiently Respond to others with less patience and more
irritability Feel tired upon awakening and/or throughout the day Unexpectedly nap at inappropriate times (at your desk, during a boring meeting, while eating, or in a theatre) Brother
Bonaventure Thelen landed in the United States in 1866 and established the first Alexian Brothers Hospital for men and boys in a small house on
Dearborn Street in
Chicago.
After a
move to larger
quarters, the great fire of 1871 destroyed everything they had worked so hard for. Quick to rebuild on the same site, the city plans of a new
elevated line forced them to move to yet another location, Belden Avenue.
During this period the headquarters of the Immaculate Conception Province was established in Chicago (1869), where it
remains to this day. The Brothers expanded their
work,
establishing hospitals in St. Louis, Missouri (1870), Oshkosh, Wisconsin (1880) and Elizabeth, New Jersey (1892). > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Center for
Mental Health Do you need support for
your family member?  If so, NAMI can help. Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health provides holistic and compassionate community services to those with mental/emotional problems or chronic mental
illness in Chicago's northwest suburbs since 1962. The results are in!! 94% of our clients across all programs report high
levels of satisfaction with the services they received at our Center.   Dr. Maxim Chasanov Awarded #1 Psychiatrist in Illinois-2008 Maxim Chasanov, M.D., Medical Director of the Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health in Arlington Heights is the 2008 recipient of the Psychiatrist of the Year Award presented by the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) - Illinois. A new sleep laboratory
is being
constructed on the St. Alexius Medical Center campus. A respiratory research center is being established with dedicated space and staff. Research interests include new procedures for the diagnosis and therapy of lung cancer, asthma, and emphysema; devices to
improve sleep
health; and medications for asthma, COPD and sleep. Patent and Trademark Office for treating depression using neurostimulation therapy in an area of the brain known as Brodmann Area 25. It is the focus of the St. Jude Medical , which is evaluating whether deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy can help people who suffer from major depressive disorder, a severe form of depression... BROADEN™ (BROdmann Area 25 DEep brain Neuromodulation) study
More Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health
Hospital Unveils Ambulatory-Care Addition and 'Inspiration Gallery'   Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital has opened
a new $3.6 million ambulatory-care wing and has augmented its expressive therapies program with
an artwork collection designed to help patients
benefit from the healing power of art.  The two-level, 12,000 sq. We believe that the promotion of health implies a holistic response to the needs of all those whose lives we touch. We believe that each person who shares in the management and delivery of health care has the responsibility to foster a supportive climate of cooperation and service in which the dignity of the person is respected and communicated. We believe that the needs of the whole person, physical, spiritual and psycho-social are to be evaluated and responded to according to professional and institutional
standards of excellence. We believe that to develop the human potential is fundamental
to insuring health
and is consistent
with Christian values. Alexian Brothers Medical Center celebrated the grand opening of the Eberle Medical Office Building with a blessing and dedication ceremony at the 60,000 square-foot facility, which has become the cornerstoneof the hospital's recent expansion.The May 13 ceremony, attended by staff members, clergy, community officials and area residents, also commemorated the Alexian Brothers' 40th anniversary in Elk Grove Village,
Ill.,where ABMC opened its doors May 14, 1966. The Most Reverend John R. Manz provided a
special blessing during the event...    Alexian Brothers Medical Center
> > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Advanced Laser Vein Center Alexian Brothers Advanced Laser Vein
Center About Us The Advanced Laser Vein Center is the region's most advanced
resource for complete vein care. From routine treatment of superficial spider veins to the removal of complex varicose
veins that could pose a health risk, The Advanced Laser Vein Center treats patients with scientifically proven methods of care and high patient satisfaction. The Advanced Laser Vein Center is led by a board-certified plastic surgeon. Working with a dedicated healthcare team, our physicians have revolutionized vein care for thousands of patients with outpatient, quick treatment and outstanding
results. The Advanced Laser Vein Center is conveniently located at the
Niehoff Pavilion on the Alexian Brothers Medical Center campus in Elk Grove Village. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our
Services AlexianConnects Physician Appointment Service Physician Appointment Service Do you need a physician?
AlexianConnects Can Help. If you would like to make an appointment with a top Alexian
Brothers primary care physician or specialist, AlexianConnects will get you an appointment with the right physician. Same
day appointments are also available.AlexianConnects is a free physician appointment service. These physician are among the
best in the area and comprise the staffs of the four hospitals that are part of Alexian Brothers Hospital Network. These hospitals are Alexian Brothers Medical Center and Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital in Elk Grove Village and St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital in Hoffman Estates. If you'd like to make an appointment with an Alexian Brothers physician,
it's easy. Call AlexianConnects toll-free
at1-866-ALEXIAN
(1-866-253-9426) Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. - 5 p.m. Sign up now to receive the latest
information on our services and ongoing professional education opportunities. ContactAmy Brooksat amy.brooks@abbhh.net to request our monthly email. You are here: > > > Alexian Brothers
Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Alexian
Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Perhaps you or a family member have struggled for
years with ,  or . Or, maybe life has just become more
difficult to handle recently. Whatever the struggle, we can help. mental health issues ,
addiction eating
disorders At Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital, we offer
comprehensive behavioral health , from prevention and early intervention to treatment and aftercare. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services    About Us Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services reflects the broad range of clinical expertise in ophthalmology available within Alexian Brothers Hospital Network. Alexian ophthalmologists provide a full spectrum of
service for patients in the northwest suburbs and offer expertise in all the subspecialties,
including: Cornea Strabismus Pediatric ophthalmology The center is also committed to providing the highest level of technology and the latest surgical techniques.  Alexian Brothers ophthalmologists were among the first in the area to implant new multifocal
intraocular lenses that allow patients undergoing
cataract surgery or refractive lens exchange procedures to have excellent vision for reading as
well as distance without the use of glasses. Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services recently established a unique partnership with The Chicago Lighthouse for People who are Blind or Visually Impaired to offer a comprehensive low-vision program based at Alexian Brothers Medical Center. The Chicago Lighthouse at Alexian Brothers is the first Chicago Lighthouse satellite program to offer comprehensive, multidisciplinary low-vision services.
Alexian Brothers
Hospital Network Clinical Trials About Us Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is committed to advancing medicine by developing new ways to treat disease through clinical trials. Clinical trials are research programs conducted with human volunteers to evaluate a new medical treatment, drug or device. Alexian Brothers is currently
engaged in over 120 such clinical trials. Those who participate in clinical trials are often the first ones to receive an investigational drug or gain access to new
treatments before they are widely available. By participation, you also contribute to our growing body of medical knowledge. There are benefits and risks involved in participating in a clinical trial. Talk to your Alexian physician before
deciding to join a
trial. An
Institutional Review
Board (IRB) reviews all Alexian clinical trials. An
IRB is an independent body of medical, scientific, and community members who are responsible for ensuring the rights, safety,
and well- being of human subjects involved in clinical trials. The Alexian Brothers ministry began in the Middle Ages, as Europe slowly emerged from centuries of ignorance and superstition. In the Low Countries and along the Rhine, small groups of men and
women banded together to carry on Christ's commands. They would tend the sick, feed the
hungry and bury the dead. These were dangerously unorthodox activities in the 12th century. Most people, out of fear, shunned the sick and dying, forcing them outside the city gates, to subsist on the leavings of the more fortunate. The first written account of the Brothers is dated 1259 in a document referring to the Beguines and
Beghards. The name of these communities evolved from the word "Algignese"
which means "heretics." These communes of celibate men and women were looked upon as unorthodox or heretical because of the type of life they lived. Gradually, these communes became more organized. By the middle of the 13th century, many received support from the Franciscan order. But some among them maintained their independence. It was from these-a handful of dedicated laymen along the Rhine
- that the Alexian Brothers grew.