If ammunition is permitted, it must be declared to the airline at check-in. Small arms ammunitions for personal use must be securely packed in fiber, wood or metal boxes or other packaging specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. Ask about limitations or fees, if any, that apply. . Read our Firearms & Ammunition section
Everyone has favorite foods from home that they want to bring to holiday dinners, or items from their destination that they want to bring back home. Not sure about what you can and can't bring through the checkpoint? Here's a list of liquid, aerosol and gel items that you should .put in your
checked bag, ship ahead, or leave at home Cranberry sauce Creamy dips and spreads (cheeses, peanut butter, etc.) Gift baskets with food items (salsa, jams and salad
dressings) Madrid Barajas Airport handles the majority of Spain's transatlantic flights, and is the foremost European airport for flights to Central and South America as well as a major hub for worldwide connections. Barajas Airport in Madrid provides
extensive dining, shopping, banking, currency, business and health amenities across its four terminals. Services for families and those with special needs are available, and Madrid Airport
offers parking for more than 10,000 vehicles. Madrid World Airport Guide provides you with access to a complete selection of Utilise the discounts offered directly from the hotel, with the assurance of secure booking. Offer suggestions on how to best accomplish the screening to minimize any confusion or outburst for the child. Ask the Security
Officer for assistance during the process by helping you put your and the child's carry-on items on the X-ray belt. Know that at no time during the screening process will you be separated from your child. Know that if a private screening is required, you should escort and remain with your child during the private screening process. Amadeus Altéa Reservation and Altéa Inventory provide Air Berlin and its low fare alliance
partner NIKI with complete control
over inventory through all distribution channels Today, Amadeus, a global leader in technology for the travel and tourism industry, announced that Air Berlin, Germany's second-largest
airline and Europe's third-largest low fare carrier, is now managing its sales, reservations, inventory and route network worldwide, using the Amadeus Altéa Customer Management Solution (CMS). As one of Europe's fastest growing and most innovative carriers, Air Berlin will benefit from the increased flexibility and functionality offered by
Altéa CMS to support its dynamic commercial strategy.