While the guest is using the product for that
recipe step, talk
about it as you normally would, including booking and
recruiting lines.
When guiding a guest to use a
product, give clear instructions so that they can feel
successful. Pass around products that are not ’t
part of the recipe to help guests experience their
special features, e.g.,
the aroma of Pantry products, the
flexible heads of our scrapers, or the “lock/unlock” closure on the Chef’s Tongs.   1/8 teaspoon pepper1/8 teaspoon pepper Added To Shopping List! Instructions Mix ground beef lightly with salt,pepper, and garlic powder shape into patties about 1' thick. Pan fry or grill over hot coals med. heat 8 minute on each side for med. 9-10 minute for med well. Brush tops lightly with catsup; cover with cheese slices.I leave them on the heat for a few seconds to let the cheese melt.Place on Butterd Buns. For the 16th annual campaign this year Pampered Chef is also offering a special Round Up from the Heart Trivet. For every trivet sold, The Pampered Chef will contribute $2 to Feeding America. At The Pampered Chef, we have a vision that someday families all around the world will know the joy and
rewards of gathering
together in the tradition of family mealtimes. () Ingredients (9) : more - 4 split hamburger buns - 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder - 4 slices bermuda onions - 4 slices tomatoes - 4 slices process American cheese - 1 lb ground beef - 1 teaspoon salt - 2 teaspoons catsup - 1/8 teaspoon pepper 7 Yummy! Yummy! These are our favorite Burgers to make in the Summer or for Football parties. Posts: 331 Best Show: 900 Experience: 2 # of Shows: 52 My Mood: Joy! I have a Tasty Tidbits idea/request! Since PC has posted those videos on YouTube, will you be adding
information about that to the next newsletter? I think it'd be
cool to have on the newsletter a link to te main
page of the
PC videos: And maybe something encouraging people to
subscribe, so they
get an update if new videos
are added. Send to a Friend
LuAnn's White Chili with
Hominy Posted by LuAnn at recipegoldmine.com 2/26/2002 1:46 pm
I return to
this hearty vegetarian white chili recipe again and again. It
is one of the
healthier recipes I've developed, that
everyone seems to truly
enjoy!! 1
tablespoon olive oil 1 large onion, chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 (4 ounce) cans diced green chiles 2 tablespoons ground cumin 1 tablespoon chili powder 1 teaspoon dried oregano 4 (15 ounce) cans great northern beans, divided use 2 cups water 1 tablespoon vegetarian chicken-style seasoning/bouillon 2 (15 ounce) cans hominy, (white preferred) rinsed and drained 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro Garnish: 4 ounces shredded reduced fat Monterey     jack cheese (1 cup), optional 1/2 cup fat-free sour cream 1/4 cup sliced green onions, optional In
a large saucepan over medium-high heat, heat the
oil. appreciative of well
crafted tools, a pizza lover,
someone who enjoys baking
NOV 25 2007 I got my baking stone about eight years ago and
still use it
constantly. I don't make a lot of pizzas, but cookies turn out
perfectly
every time. There are some great recipes
in the instruction book as well(the fruit pizza
is wonderful). The
newer ones come with handles which must be very
helpful because
the stone itself is a
little awkward to get in and out of the oven. Posts: 462 Best Show: 1000.0 Experience: 1 # of Shows: My Mood: Re: Holiday Mini Catalogues When you order them.. click on the msgnifying glass and the whole list of supplies will appear.. scroll down until you see holiday mini cats.. click on it and it will add to your list of supplies you are ordering. The # is also in CN.. Yes, you can order tham after Oct 1.. I ordered mine Monday. Holiday cats are ready to order Nov 1st.   MLM Companies - Network Marketing / Direct Sales Directory Advertising Get home based business leads or promote your own opportunity Company Directory Links and Information on over 900 Network Marketing, Direct Sales Companies and MLM Companies Npros Network Marketing, Direct Sales, and MLM companies directory The
Npros.com Home Based Business Directory contains
hundreds of MLM
Companies, Network
Marketing Companies, Direct Sales Companies, Party Plan
Businesses
and more.
Mark Miller belongs in Washington, DC, in the sense
that the city is the nation's capital and Mark Miller is a quintessentially American culinary leader. It is also fitting that Miller opened his Red Sage restaurant as a benefit for the National Museum of the American Indian at the Smithsonian Institution. A former student of anthropology at Berkeley and Oxford, Miller considers cooking to be a practical application of the study of culture, and he strives to recreate in food what he
admires in primitive art:
"intensity of forms and
colors." Wednesday, February 18, 2009 Pampered Chef Giveaway!
Posted by christy on February
9, 2009 Do you love to cook?
Or do you need a little help in
the kitchen? Either way, if you’ve never tried , now is your
chance. We’re giving away 2 great
Pampered Chef products!
Pampered Chef Replaces 7
measuring cups! It means that
the retailer does not have to
carry any stock and products are not purchased until an order has been made (meaning there is no possibility of over-ordering and ending up with surplus stock). There is no need to pay rent for premises or storage, so the overall financial investment is low - all that is required is a signing up cost with a drop shipper. As with all business models, there are some risks
involved. The retailer has no
control of delivery speed and is
reliant on the drop shipper to fulfil the order. Another way
for consultants to make
sales, a Pampered
Chef catalog
party, allows the consultant to give a customer the link to the online catalog, and
let them purchase whatever
items they like, directly online. The online
catalog features sections on family items,
bakeware, pantry goods, cookware, gift
sets, entertaining, stoneware,
cookbooks,
cutting utensils, kitchenware
and various
kitchen implements to
make cooking easier and more fun. The catalog also
features linens, and
special areas for viewing
patterns, colors, and products in more
detail. Set oven to Broil.
Add Pepperoni or sub as
desired. Top with sliced
Mozzarella. Don't place cheese
close together or on top
of each
other. The mozzarella is the
gift of the pizza and you
don't want there to be a bit
in each bite. Also, if you
layer the cheese it won't cook
the way you
like. Place back in Oven on top rack. Broil until cheese
bubbles and browns. Remove,
let cool for a few minutes and
enjoy. Pampered Chef Rep Now a Chef MLM, Network Marketing and Home Based Business News   | | | | | Npros.com New Companies Home Based Business Directory Rep Listings MLM Leads Classifieds Pampered Chef Rep Now a ChefSource: Fort Wayne Journal Gazette "Mom wary of cooking now a Chef By Diana Parker The Journal Gazette A little more than four years ago, Stephanie Ball's husband, Dennis, did 98 percent of the cooking for the family. Then one day Ball's grandmother encouraged her to attend a Pampered Chef show, and life changed. And I have a good grasp of what's agreeable to my customers," says Susan Spicer, chef-proprietor of Bayona, discussing her menu that ranges from "Boudin Noir with Apples and Onions" to "Crawfish Curry with Lime Pickle." Spicer served a three-year apprenticeship in New
Orleans at the Louis
XVI restaurant and, in the summer of 1982, apprenticed under
Chef Roland Durand
at Hotel Sofitel in Paris. "That
was a turning point in my career. Posted 1/3/2009 Pre-Paid Legal Adds 100th
Millionaire
Club Member   Pre-Paid Legal
Services, Inc. (NYSE: PPD) Chairman & CEO Harland
Stonecipher
announced earlier today
that Phillip Ernest, an independent
sales associate from Ft.
Worth, Tex., has
become the 100th member to join the
company's "Millionaire Club." The "Millionaire Club"
recognizes those sales associa... Every one needs
at least one kid free evening with adult conversation! 8. Checking out new kitchen products that make meal time fun and easy is a good idea! 7. Perfect time to catch up with friends! 6. Great time to meet new neighbors. 5. Let dad help with homework and tucking in the kids for the night. Can anyone tell me if the new Theme Show Guide that we got in our change over kits is included the New Consultants kit? or do new consultants have
to purchase it on supply order? Just curious. My
new recruit doesn't recall seeing it in her new
stuff, and I wasn't sure if since we received it
in our change over stuff, if it would be included for
them or not?   The
website provides
special areas for
consultants
to find out
about the products, little
known facts, and special
features that customers may find interesting. Fans of
the Pampered Chef products will buy from you
once they become aware that you are now a consultant in their
area. Research and talk to these people
to build your network. Many customers of the Pampered Chef are repeat customers. Asking the people you already know if they would be interested in hosting a party is also a great way to build contacts. Search Npros by Company Name: Enter Company Name   1 800 Wine Shop 1-800 Wine Shop ( Wine Shop at Home )was founded by John and Melissa Lynch, who started 1-800WineShop over ten years ago with a simple desire to turn a passion for wine country into a way of life. In 1999, 1-800WineShop held their first Harvest Party as a way for customers to
experience
wine country lifestyle firsthand.
You can tell a lot
about a coffee if
you know where it?s from,
because every bean has a
distinctive flavor particular to
its land of origin. Coffees
from Africa are remarkable for their floral aromas and
citrus. Chardonnay Chardonnay
is a green-skinned grape
variety, used to make white wine. It
probably originated in the
Burgundy
wine region of eastern France
but is now found anywhere that grapevines can be grown, from England to New Zealand. "Every year, thousands of investors flock to Berkshire's annual meeting to hear the "Oracle of Omaha" hold forth on the prospects for investing success in the coming year. But on this early September day in 2002, Buffet wanted to hear what Doris Christopher had to say. Just a week earlier, the $36 billion dollar man had never heard of Christopher.
Now he wanted to know if the founder and CEO of The
Pampered Chef would sell her
company -- a direct seller of 225 high-end kitchen tools including everything from vegetable peelers and cutting boards to skillets and fondue sets -- to Berkshire. Alternatively, there is Little Green Tots , whose baby and childrens products are all ethically sourced. If you fancy a break from thinking about children, then why not work for a company selling products aimed at adults? For people with a chocolate passion, there is Coco Moyo , whose demonstrators do chocolate tasting and making events, or Chocolates for Chocoholics , whose
distributors do parties in the
run-up to Christmas and Easter. Home Business News
Archive
Recent News:
" An estimated 35.5 million
Americans - 12.6 million of them
children - live in homes where
their chance of getting nutritionally adequate
and safe foods is uncertain due to a lack of money and other
resources,
according to the USDA. ... "  Pampered Chef Gives
to MANNA Food Bank   10/30/2008 •  Pink
is in these days. Everywhere you
look, from professional baseball players with pink facial
hair... Pampered Chef Raises over 6 Million for
Charity It’s scary for my
husband too because of the
mounds of dishes I create
for him to wash while figuring out my recipe for a
dish. I
always end up running around like a chicken thinking of
things I want to add to the recipe. Sometimes it works
out for me and other times it turns into a mini
disaster. Luckily, this turned out very good! My husband really enjoyed it and he’s always a bit leary of things I just concoct out of my head. or more if needed for others Italian Noodles Modified form a real Italian dish Angel hair pasta Large can of black olives real grated parmesian cheese milk, just a little 1-2 eggs Cook the angel hair pasta and drain, add back to pan. Add a little milk, break an egg or two into the noodles and stir over low heat until egg is done. Unless you live in the Stone Age, you won't make a habit of preparing
dinner over a fire pit with only a stick to use as
a roaster. Well, you may still try that technique for fun, but why not buy some fun, unique instead? Find exciting cookware by reading reviews here.cooking toolscookware The community here has used many different . Stop meddling with your outdated can opener and pick one up from . Save yourself time and the tediousness of food preparation by finely chop your food with a .
Need a push for an incentive?  
Posts: 92
Best Show: 1,200 Experience: 2 # of
Shows: 100+
Preferred Customer/Host Cards Does anyone use
thebooster.com
prefered
customer/host cards? Or have a similar program? What are your "rules" and/or requirements?   Posts: 752 Best Show: 1454 Experience: 3+ # of Shows: 70 My Mood: I made this punch card and it works well. Attached Files (144.5 KB, 131 views) Good Guest Punch Card.doc She received her PhD in clinical and developmental psychology from the University of Illinois at Chicago in
1987. Dr. Fiese is a Fellow of the
American Psychological
Association and serves as Chair of the APAs Committee on
Children, Youth, and Families. She also serves on the
Society for Research in Child
Development Policy and Communications Board and the University
of Rochester School of Medicine Wynne Center for Family
Research Board. Other Business Guidelines- this
includes any other
direct sales companys or any other businesses you or others have on the side. If you have or would like to recommend a business which you feel would benefit our members please email me ahead of time for authorization before you make your post. As always Chef Success does not offer any liability to those who choose to do business with those businesses. Signatures are
exempt from these promotion
rules if the promotion does not deal with
recruitment.
Add any accumulated juices from
steaks to
sauce. - Remove
from heat; swirl in remaining 2 tablespoons butter. - Season
with salt
and pepper. -
Meanwhile, cook
ravioli in a
large pot of
boiling salted water for 4 minutes or until tender. To Serve
Arrange mushroom mixture on 4
serving plates. - Place steaks over mushrooms and top with ravioli. Everyone has bought cheap spatulas that cracked, peeled, separated from their handle, discolored, and/or melted.Throw a party that emphasizes quality!   The Spice of Life! The Pampered Chef has an extraordinary pantry offering, but often people are afraid to try new flavors and combinations.The Spice of Life party is designed to boost your pantry sales among your
regular customers, thereby
creating a eorderclient base, while highlighting the
Simple
Additions product line.  It was a beautiful black/brown
color and my absolute favorite baking tool. I used it for
chicken, fish, frozen snacks, pork, cookies, pretty much
anything I needed
to bake. The more you use it the darker it becomes and
the more non-stick it becomes. It does not absorb any odors so
there are no after tastes of your previous use on it. a busy person, like a bargain, still have all my fingers, married, appreciative of good service, impressed with this product, a tool fanatic, handy DEC 17 2007 This rice cooker, was one of the last things that I purchased from pampered chef. BOY, OH boy am I glad I did. We use it every day, even more than the mircro steamers now.. I can't wait to give it a try with a cake.. Meanwhile, in another large skillet, melt 2 tablespoons of butter over medium-high heat. - Sprinkle the filets with salt and pepper. - Sear in hot butter for 3 minutes per side or until browned. - Reduce heat to medium and continue cooking about 5 minutes, turning once for rare steaks. - Transfer steaks to a plate; keep warm. () more (0) comments Filed Under:
christmas,holiday,main dish,pork,pie 4 medium onions, salt and
pepper, 3 lbs pork butt,
boiling water, 1 teaspoon
savory, 4 double crust pie crusts, 1 teaspoon ground
... () Ingredients (8) : more - 4 medium onions -
salt and pepper - 3 lbs pork butt - boiling water - 1 teaspoon
savory - 4 double crust pie crusts - 1 teaspoon ground cloves - 1 lb lean beef 0 Yummy! The dough was definitely strong enough to move from the work surface to place on top of the filling. Rating: B. It gets a B rating for a few reasons. The most critical one being taste. It tasted like flour. It wasn’t really bad but definitely detracted from the taste. The dough wasn’t super flaky either but it had a great texture nonetheless. The Best Recipes from a Mediocre Cook Wednesday, December 17, 2008 Date Cooked: December 16, 2008Page: 352 Rating: B This was made as a component to a Chicken Pot Pie I made. It was also my very first attempt at making pie dough of any kind. I’ve been intimidated by pastry for quite awhile since I always here horror stories about unworkable dough and using just the
right amount of water and making sure butter is
chilled, etc. For those who
are concerned
about heat
destruction of enzymes, the Omega’s auger turns
slowly and doesn't appear to generate much noticeable heat. Granted the process of crushing and squeezing the vegetable matter through a small screen will cause friction, but I just don't feel it's as big a deal for the average user. That goes for oxidation as well. All juicers introduce some oxygen into the juice simply because of the mechanical process of extraction. With some fruits and vegetables, however, this machine does a
noticeable job of reducing the
amount of foam.   1/2 cup butter or margarine,
melted1/2 cup butter
or margarine, melted   1 cup milk1
cup milk   1 1/4 cups sugar, divided1 1/4 cups sugar, divided
Added To Shopping List!
Instructions Pour butter into a shallow 2-qt. baking dish; set
aside. Drain peaches, reserving 1/4 cup
juice. In a saucepan,
bring the
peaches and juice just to a boil. Meanwhile, in a
mixing bowl, combine 1 cup
sugar, flour, milk, baking
powder and salt; mix well. I
doubled the recipe and only put in one cup, of brown sugar,
accidentially missing 1/3 cup. They still tasted great.
Was this
review helpful? 0 users found
this review helpful[ ] YES
Golden Sweet
Cornbread Reviewed:Mar. 30, 2008 I
followed the recipe exactly and
found it to be delicious as is. I baked it in a Pampered Chef
Deep Dish Baker and it came
out perfect. I bought a set of 3 from a party, just trying to add a few things to help my aunt reach her hostess goal, and ended up loving these more than anything else I bought (I loved it all, these were just my faves.) They cost $3.50 for the set of 3. They are made of durable nylon and can be washed in the dishwasher. They have a dent in the middle that your thumb rests in, making scraping a breeze. (This is in sharp contrast to
MLM companies which pay on more than 5 levels and which
may pay as much or more in overrides to participants
several levels above the person selling
the product as to the
participant
whorecruitedthe actual seller.) Also, (4) The Pampered Chef's
compensation
plan is a straightforward
and easy to understand unitary system, as opposed to systems
referred to as breakaway, matrix, binary,
trinary, or combinations of these. So the
meeting has to be at her house if we expect her to attend. And then my sister consultants and myself are just "invited guests" at the meeting, since we're no longer in the same genealogy since our director relinquished and we rolled up to a NED's first line. Trust me - I'd LOVE to have a meeting in our neck of the woods! People never seem to believe me when I tell them
that I drive 45-100 miles round trip for meetings,
depending on the location. Reps received an email on Tuesday,
January 20,
2005 stating the company had
closed. No
explanation was provided.
Affordable Luxuries Closes Without
Notice Travelogia Closes Without Notice Travelogia has
closed its doors. According to the
company
website, "TraveLogia is no longer able to
continue its travel & affiliate programs. " Any new product launch in the network
marketing space is
noteworthy - KillerBuzz introduces a competitor in the
Energy Drink
Market.