CongressLine by GalleryWatch.com: Voting
in Congress, by Paul Jenks E-Discovery Update - by Fios Inc.: Choosing An E-Discovery Vendor, by Conrad J. Jacoby
Reference from Coast to Coast: An Overview of Selected SEC Resources on the Web, by Jan Bissett and Margi Heinen Faulkner's Practical Web Strategies for Attorneys: Planning Your 2007
Web Strategy, by Frederick L. Faulkner IV The Government Domain: 2007 Calendars and Schedules, by Peggy Garvin After Hours: But Wait! There's More, by Kathy Biehl FOIA Facts: Rapid
Response Team for FOIA, by Scott A. Hodes The Tao of Law Librarianship: Reaching Across the Generations in the Profession,
by Connie Crosby Commentary: The Military
Commissions Act and The Habeas Corpus Act, by Beth Wellington November 14, 2006 SEC Enhances Online Search Capabilities for Investors 31, 2001: • ImClone founder Sam Waksal is tipped that the government will deny the company's Erbitux
application, then tips his daughter to sell her ImClone stock and tries to sell his own.Dec. 26, 2001: • Stewart sells all 3,928 shares of ImClone stock she owns. The government later contends she was tipped that Waksal was trying to sell his shares.Dec. a reporter behind me suddenly demanded, when Bacanovic was long gone and a woman I had barely noticed had disappeared into the courtroom. "Martha's mom?" "The woman who just walked by. Did you see the Barbara Walters interview? Was that Martha's mom?" "I don't know," I confessed, hit by another wave of insecurity, wishing I were still covering stocks. The court guards split us into subgroupsin-house press, other
press, and non-pressand told us to get our credentials
ready. The in-house press, the dozen or so reporters permanently assigned to the courthouse, shuffled toward the door. My two-hour advantage nullified, I again began to fret that, with only a letter from my editor and a passport for credentials, I wouldn't get in. Share this article on Digg Share this article on Buzz I contemplated switching to the non-press line, on the other side of the door, which had only six people in it. The most notable was a guy from Save Martha! (), who had, a few minutes earlier, pulled out a "SAVE MARTHA!" • Former Merrill Lynch & Co. assistant
Douglas Faneuil pleads guilty to taking a payoff to keep quiet about the Stewart stock trade.Oct. 2, 2002: • Waksal admits tipping his daughter to sell ImClone ahead of
the government
decision and trying to sell his own shares.Oct. 15, 2002: • Stewart and Bacanovic are indicted on nine federal counts in the ImClone scandal. Both plead innocent. Stewart resigns as chairwoman and CEO of her company but remains
chief creative officer and a board member.June 4, 2003: • Stewart unveils a personal Web site in which she proclaims her innocence and insists she will fight to clear her name.June 5, 2003: •Waksal is
sentenced to more than seven years in prison.June 10, 2003: •Stewart tells ABC News she is scared of prison but "I don't think I will be going to prison, though."Nov. 7, 2003: •U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum refuses Stewart's request to toss out two of the five charges against her, including a securities fraud count.Nov. Government rests its case.Feb. 20: •Jeremiah Gutman, former Faneuil lawyer called as witness for Bacanovic, instead backs up Faneuil testimony. Defense ink expert says "(at)60" ink may match ink from a dash mark elsewhere on the worksheet. Heidi DeLuca, a Stewart business manager, says she has a memory of Bacanovic discussing plans to sell Stewart's ImClone shares at $60.Feb. 23: •Stewart lawyers call just
one witness — a lawyer whose notes raise question about
what questions Stewart was asked in interviews with the government. Government plays tape of Bacanovic saying he never discussed $60 plan with DeLuca.Feb. 25: •Judge
throws out securities fraud count against Stewart. The charge accused her of deceiving investors in her own media company by claiming she sold ImClone because of the $60 agreement.Feb. 27: •Jury begins deliberations.March 3: •Stewart convicted on all charges; Bacanovic convicted on all but one charge,
making a false statement.March 5: Copyright 2005 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Get a Poster at Hailed as the guru of good taste and queen of domesticity, Martha Stewart has with a near-obsessive drive to succeed turned her life-long skills in catering, gardening and home decoration into a multi-million dollar industry. Born Martha Kostyra in Jersey City, New Jersey, Stewart was raised in a typical Polish-Catholic middle class homeher father was a pharmaceutical salesman and her mother
was a sixth-grade school teacher. She has credited her father as the one who taught her all she knew about carpentry, gardening and public speaking, even if it came with the threat of
a beating.... the (first) cribber said. "Thirty pounds, maybe?" The other reporter nodded. "Did you see that photo? Looked like she weighed 300 pounds."Enquirer "Awful. Looked good on Barbara Walters, though." "Amazing earrings. Big diamond studs." "Sent the wrong message. Should have been understatedgold." At this, a third reporter whirled around, clutching a rolled-up copy of one of the legal filings. "ONE POINT FIVE MILLION," she declared, her face flushed with excitement. "The word is -- beware -- and don't engage in this type of conduct because it will not be tolerated," David Kelley, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, said outside the courthouse. One of the jurors said, "This is a victory for the little guys. No one is above the
law." About an hour after the verdict
was read, Stewart -- wearing a fur
around her neck and a black overcoat and
carrying a brown leather bag -- strode poker-faced down the stairs of the courthouse, accompanied by her lawyers, and left. She did not respond to questions shouted at her by reporters. As she came within sight of a crowd in the street, some people began chanting, "We want Martha!" Eyewitnesses said Stewart's daughter Alexis was crying. Baby Doll T-Shirt Do the Thyme! White T-Shirt Save Martha! Stainless Steel Travel Mug Save
Martha! Boxer Shorts Save Martha!
Messenger Bag Save Martha! Snap Bib Domestic Diva Tile Coaster The Save Martha! slogan"If her stock sale was legit, you must acquit!"gets at one of the tensions of the case. The prosecutors aren't alleging
that the trade was illegitimate; they are saying, in effect, that whether it was legitimate or not is irrelevant. Ex-Enron CEO and former WorldCom CEO were each recently indicted for their alleged roles in the collapse of those companies. (For more on the scandals, ). Jeff Skilling Bernard Ebbers click here Ironically, Erbitux, the ImClone drug at the heart of the scandal, was approved by regulators last month to treat certain
forms of cancer. May
31, 2006 Senate Finance Chair Questions Nonprofit Investment Group's Practices, Seeks IRS, SEC Comment Press release: Grassley Questions Nonprofit Investment Group Practices, Seeks IRS, SEC Comment [6 pages, , includes text of letter from Grassley to National Association of Investors Corp. President as well as letter to etter to SEC Chairman Christopher Cox] PDF January 30, 2006 SEC Proposed Rule on Executive Compensation and
Related Party Disclosure SEC Proposed Rule on Executive Compensation and Related Party Disclosure, January 28, 2006 (370 pages, ) PDF Related reference, New York Times, January 29, 2006: : "Corporate America has made some progress in cleaning up its governance, but overly high compensation levels for chief executives show that much remains to be done, says , editor, founder and chairman of the Corporate Library, a research group
based in Portland, Me." The Case for Cutting the Chief's Paycheck Nell Minow January 05, 2006 SEC Issues Statement Concerning Financial Penalties : "Today the Commission announced the filing of two settled actions against
corporate issuers, SEC v. • Prosecutor claims in opening statements that Stewart sold ImClone stock based on a "secret tip," then lied to cover it up. Stewart's attorney compares case with the Big Brother novel "1984."Jan. 27: •Faneuil testifies that Bacanovic ordered him to tell Stewart that Waksal was selling stock. Faneuil claims Bacanovic pressured him repeatedly to cover it up.Feb. 3-4: •Stewart assistant Ann Armstrong testifies Stewart personally altered log of a message Bacanovic left on day she sold ImClone. But Armstrong says Stewart ordered the message changed back and never asked her to lie.Feb. 10: