FDA issued a cautionary warning to consumers in September 2007. Australian news organizations report the University of Sydney is also investigating an association between illness in dogs and the consumption of chicken jerky in Australia. At least one firm in Australia has recalled their chicken jerky product and the recall notification stated the chicken jerky product was manufactured in China. Stray Dead Dog But just in case you're not ready to leave the Southland right away... has one of the healthiest Dead Dog Parties of any filk convention anywhere with nearly as many attendees as at the Saturday night open filk. The hotel restaurant is available, as well as several fast food places nearby. View full list.... It makes sense that second-hand smoke affects the health of our pets, but our furry friends suffer a triple-threat from tobacco. In addition to the obvious danger of lung cancer, dogs and cats lick the residual tar and nicotine from their coats, which can cause mouth and throat cancers. A History of Hope When our family member Blue was affected by canine cancer, we wanted to do
something about it. So in 2003 The Blue Buffalo Foundation for Cancer Research was founded to accomplish several important goals: The Foundation itself identifies the most promising institutions and distributes the funds generated by the Pet Cancer Awareness (PCA) program. One in four dogs will die from cancer, and it makes many others very, very sick. Humans often call us heroes. They talk about our importance as
guide dogs for the blind, rescue and K9 dogs. But we couldn't do it without you. You feed us, love us, throw the ball for us and take us to the vet when we're feeling sick. is also a hero to dogs with the
launch of their global campaign to cure canine cancer in a dog's lifetime, the next 1020 years. Costumed or not, walk your dog in the Pooch Parade. Or entice your Dachshund to dash across the finish line in the Wiener Dog Races. Perhaps you'l want to do both! Entry donations: $10 for Wiener Dog Races, and $10 for the Pooch Parade. Donations benefit , giving
kids a fighting chance against cancer. The severity of the signs depends upon the extent of the tumor and on whether the cancer has caused changes in organ function. In many cases, the only noticeable sign is an enlargement of the lymph nodes under the neck, behind the knees or in front of the shoulders. Other organs, such as the liver, spleen and bone marrow can be involved as well. TOP GASTROINTESTINAL: A second form is involvement of the gastrointestinal tract. s a malignant cancer that involves the lymphoid system, an important part of the body’s immune system. The most common form is the multicentric form that can cause enlarged lymph
nodes, lethargy, and a weak appetite.Lymphoma i occur in the breast tissue and are more common in unspayed, older female dogs. They are the most common type of tumor found in .Mammary gland tumors unspayed dogs are fairly common. Vomiting, diarrhea, weight loss, and abdominal enlargement can be signs of this type of cancer.Abdominal tumors Some sources define exophthalmos as a
protrusion of the globe greater than 18 mm and as a
protusion equal to or less than 18 mm. (Epstein et al, 2003). Others define "exophthalmos" as protrusion secondary to endocrine dysfunction and "proptosis" as any non-endocrine-mediated protrusion . proptosis [1] [] edit Causes Anophthalmos Leukemias
Cellulitis, Orbital Meningioma, Sphenoid
Wing Dacryoadenitis Mucormycosis Dermoid, Orbital Orbital Fracture, Apex Duane Syndrome Orbital Fracture, Floor Fistula, Carotid Cavernous Orbital Fracture, Medial Wall Glaucoma, Juvenile Orbital Fracture, Zygomatic Globe Retraction Ptosis, Adult Hemangioma, Cavernous Ptosis, Congenital Horner Syndrome Thyroid Ophthalmopathy While you're here, please continue to check out the website and make sure to visit my secure
fundraising sponsorship page, where you can help dogs get access to the natural dog cancer care they deserve...  Just click on the "widget" below or Click Here to visit the Donation Options Page Every donation, no matter how big or small, will help dogs get the care they need - so
please, donate what you can...  To learn more about the "Dog Cancer Ride Across America" and the charities it supports, click on the navigation links on the left side of this page or click on the map below to visit the... Okay, Ive said it before and Ill say it again: Pesticides are proven to increase your dogs (or cats) chance of getting cancer. A University of Pennsylvania vet school46% of dogs and 39% of cats
dying of disease will die of cancer.
study showed topical insecticides (aka preventatives) significantly increased bladder cancer risk, especially in overweight dogs. Other studies have shown cancer risks from herbicides. Some products meant for pets can even increase the chance and your
children will become ill.you e
have worked with targeted gene therapy for five years and have been researching lymphoma for one year,Dr. Smith said. ur research will benefit pets directly and may possibly
be applied to humans later, because
lymphoma is very similar in dogs and humans.SPAN lang=EN style="FONT-SIZE: 12pt; FONT-FAMILY: Verdana; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN">  