Although SNAP will be the national name, your
State may use a different name.  SNAP helps low-income people and families buy the food they need for good health. You for benefits by completing a State application form. Benefits are provided on an electronic card that is used like an ATM card and
accepted at most grocery stores. apply Through nutrition education partners, SNAP helps clients learn to make healthy eating and active lifestyle choices.   The six grantees were selected from more than 31 proposals submitted by states, nonprofit groups and other organizations. Additional
information
about each project is available online at . On January
29, 2001, the President created the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives (WHOFBCI) along with offices in Federal Agencies. These offices work together to ensure that faith and community-based organizations have the opportunity to assist America's neediest families and individuals. The Food Stamp Program, administered by the USDA's Food and Nutrition Service, is the cornerstone of federal nutrition assistance programs and provides crucial support to working poor and
needy households. The Food Stamp Nutrition Education (FSNE) component of the Food Stamp Program is intended to improve the food choices, diet quality, and health of program participants. This brief discusses the FSNE program, how it operates, and how it has grown over time. The brief also considers the challenges of nutrition education in general and discusses the research and
evaluation needs suggested by the findings. See in this series, other reports Can Food Stamps Do More To
Improve Food Choices? An Economic Perspective Food Stamp Program, food consumption, food prices, food expenditures, nutrition education, behavioral economics, food choices, diet, health, fruits and vegetables, Food Assistance and Nutrition Research Program, FANRP, ERS, USDAKeywords: Food Stamp Fraud and
Abuse It is illegal to knowingly use, transfer, acquire,
change or possess food stamps or
Dakota EBT cards
in any way not authorized by the
Food Stamp Program. If the value is $100 or more, you
could be charged with a felony. If found guilty, you could
be fined up to $250,000, be
sentenced to 20 years in jail, or both. Persons found
guilty of intentional program violations may be disqualified from the Food Stamp Program 12 months for the first offense, 24 months for the second and permanently for the third offense. EAT SMART/MOVE MORE forms partnerships
with DC organizations to promote food security, good health, nutrition, and physical activity to low income individuals and families. Our DC partners include faith-based organizations, DC Public Schools, Head Start programs, day care centers, hospitals, senior centers, Food Stamp agencies, non-profit agencies, and many other community outreach programs. If you would like more
information on DC EAT SMART/MOVE MORE, or would like to schedule a free nutrition event for your
organization, call (202) 645-5663
for more information. EAT SMART/MOVE MORE Partners
Refer to the calendar for upcoming health fairs
and nutrition classes and events. Please refer to the
for information about other
Department of Health events. If you would like to schedule a free nutrition event at your faith-based organization, daycare center, school, or other organization call (202) 645-5663 to learn if your group is eligible. If you would like to schedule a free nutrition event at your faith-based organization, daycare center, school, or other organization call (202) 645-5663 to find out if your group is eligible.Consumers Householdsuse food stamp benefits to buy:CANNOT Beer, wine, liquor,
cigarettes or
tobacco; Any nonfood items such as pet foods, soaps, paper products and household supplies Vitamins and medicines. Food that will be eaten in the store. Hot foods In some areas, restaurants can be authorized to accept food stamp benefits from qualified homeless, elderly, or disabled
people in
exchange for low-cost meals. Food stamp benefits cannot be exchanged for cash.   The grants, authorized by the 2002 Farm Bill, are designed to help simplify food stamp application and eligibility systems. The recipients are state agencies working in partnership with faith and community-based
organizations. In Arizona for example, the Office of the Governor
partnered with the Foundation for Senior Living, a faith-based organization. This joint effort, Project AzSECURE (Arizona Serving Eligible Customers and Utilizing Resources Efficiently) will integrate the Food Stamp Program application process with Medicare, including the Prescription
Drug Benefit. Under Secretary for
Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Eric M. Bost
presented the partnership with a check for $823,343 in Phoenix today. "We are committed to simplifying access, while maintaining the integrity of the program," said Bost. "During the application process, we encouraged state agencies to partner with faith and community based organizations. These
partnerships are crucial to ensuring that everyone who is eligible for food stamps knows about the program, where to apply and is treated with dignity and respect."