In January, Alexian
Brothers Center for Mental Health completed a 3 day, 4 reviewer, random, unannounced audit conducted by DHS' Bureau of Licensure and Accreditation and the ASO (Administrative Service Organization). The results validated our comprehensive and effective clinical programming, our strong
documentation practices and our dedication to the treatment of those who suffer from a mental illness. Our solid documentation of services provided resulted in a score that is one of the highest in the state and our "return" amount was less than one half of one percent of our total State annual billings. We continue to strive for the highest quality, compliance and effectiveness to ensure
the best services are provided for those we serve. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network
The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers is a healthcare system approach to oncology services at St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian Brothers Medical Center. The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is an Oncology Clinical Institute that is inspired by the values that shape the Alexian Brothers philosophy of care and a desire to provide cutting-edge, innovative treatment. Our mission is to offer services to meet the needs of cancer patients and their families at Alexian Brothers Medical Center and St. > > Alexian Brothers Home About Us Crest of the Immaculate Conception Province The Crest of the Congregation of Alexian Brothers Immaculate Conception Province is a modified version of the Seal of the Congregation of Alexian Brothers. The upper half shows a pelican nourishing her young with her heart's blood - a symbol of the self-consuming character of real Christian love. The two spades represent the burial work performed by early Brothers in times of calamity. Spiritual Care is one of the clearest, visible expressions of dedication to the Congregation of Alexian Brothers' Charism and is central to ABHS's identity as a Catholic healthcare provider. Chaplains have been present to comfort patients and their families in times of crisis, give thanks in times of joy, testify to the love of God, and at times guide our family of physicians, nurses and employees in matters of the spirit. Our long-term goals remain constant: To strengthen spirituality in the way we deliver care To strengthen spirituality in our workplaces The Center for Spiritual Care maintains effective and ongoing communication with clergy in the community, and actively supports the health promotions efforts of local churches in all denominations and
faith traditions. Alexian Wound Health Center is staffed with a multidisciplinary team of doctors and nurses with expertise in comprehensive wound management. This program is designed to offer high
quality care to patients suffering from wounds
that have not
responded to traditional treatment. New Center Offers Advanced Treatment for Patients with Slow-healing Wounds Alexian Brothers Hospital Network has opened a wound care center that offers state-of-the-art treatment for diabetics
with foot ulcers and for other patients with slow-healing wounds. Mrs. Gordon P. Street, Sr. Mrs. George (Ginny) Power Mrs. Charles (Ruth) Thompson Mrs. W. A. (Mary) Stem Two of the founders,
Mary Stem and Ginny Power, are shown in the picture on this page. Both of these women were actively teaching exercise classes at Senior Neighbors well into
their 80s. Since its inception, Senior Neighbors has been connecting people with resources to ensure their continued health, wellness, vitality, involvement in the community and engagement in life. Those who participate in
clinical trials are
often the first ones to receive an investigational drug or gain access to new treatments before they are widely available. By participation, you also contribute to our growing body of medical knowledge. There are benefits and risks involved in participating in a clinical trial. Talk to your Alexian physician before deciding to join a trial. An Institutional Review
Board (IRB) reviews all Alexian clinical trials. An IRB is an independent body of medical, scientific, and community members who are responsible for ensuring the rights, safety, and well- being of human subjects involved in clinical trials.
> > > Alexian
Brothers Home Our
Services Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services    About
Us Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services reflects the broad range of
clinical expertise in ophthalmology available within Alexian Brothers Hospital Network. Alexian ophthalmologists provide a full spectrum of service for patients in the northwest suburbs and offer expertise in all the subspecialties, including: The recruitment of a dedicated lung surgeon has raised the quality bar with minimally invasive techniques, shorter hospital days and adherence to national guidelines in the approach to lung cancer surgery. The acquisition of one of the nation's leaders in interventional pulmonology makes the Alexian Hospital
Network the first in the Chicago area to establish this service that offers a higher level of care through advanced endoscopic and pleural procedures. The Alexian Sleep Health Center is
premier in the Chicago
area in both quality
and quantity. The
Alexian Sleep Health Center
was founded to help
physicians and other healthcare professionals diagnose and treat patients with sleep disorders including sleep apnea, narcolepsy, restless legs syndrome and insomnia. The Alexian Brothers Medical
Center sleep laboratory was relocated and modernized to service pediatric sleep and to allow expansion to 20 beds. Alexius Province - Germany St. Alexius Province - Germany St. Alexius Province - Germany This province has houses in ten larger cities in Germany. The photo to the right is the Mother house located in Aachen, which is near Cologne. The brothers have been living at this location since 1334. The Alexian brothers operate psychiatric hospitals (to provide treatment for addictions and the neurologically ill), general medicine, senior centers for the elderly, and workshops for the handicapped. Alexian Brothers Center for Mental Health provides holistic and compassionate community services to those with mental/emotional problems or chronic mental illness in Chicago's northwest suburbs since 1962. The results are in!! 94% of our clients across all programs report high levels of satisfaction with the services they received at our Center.   Dr. Maxim Chasanov Awarded #1 Psychiatrist in Illinois-2008 Maxim Chasanov, M.D., Medical Director of the Alexian
Brothers Center for Mental Health in Arlington Heights is the 2008 recipient of the Psychiatrist of the Year Award presented by the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) - Illinois. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital The 66-bed Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital is a
state-of-the-art facility that offers inpatient services, day rehabilitation, outpatient services and specialty programs for neurological and
musculoskeletal disorders. Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital is an affiliate between Alexian Brothers Hospital Network and the . Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago Young children often look up to older kids, and the dynamic that occurs when they interact can be powerful. Just ask Pat
Cornfield. A resource teacher with Alexian Brothers Health System’s Interfaith Parish Support Services (IPSS), he has spearheaded the development of an after-school “study buddy” program in which eight students from Montini Catholic in Lombard , Ill. , assist 20 students at St. Pius X Parish School in
Lombard
with basic reading, writing and arithmetic skills... Jude Medical , which is evaluating whether deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy can help people who suffer from major depressive disorder, a severe form of depression... BROADEN™ (BROdmann Area 25 DEep
brain Neuromodulation) study More Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Unveils Ambulatory-Care Addition and 'Inspiration Gallery'   Alexian
Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital has opened a new $3.6 million ambulatory-care wing and has
augmented its expressive therapies program with an artwork collection designed to help patients benefit from the healing power of art.  The two-level, 12,000 sq. ft. ambulatory-care addition houses
the Hoffman
Estates,
Ill., hospital's partial... More Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health Hospital Awarded Gold Seal of Approval for Healthcare Quality We believe that each person who shares in the management and delivery of health care has the responsibility to foster a supportive climate of cooperation and service in which the dignity of the person is respected and
communicated. We believe that the needs of the whole person, physical, spiritual and psycho-social are to be evaluated and responded to according to professional and institutional standards of excellence. We believe that to develop the human potential is fundamental to insuring health and is consistent with Christian values. Robin Troiani is on a mission, and
she knows her time is limited. Troiani, a nurse at Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village, Ill., wants to help other women avoid what she has experienced since she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1999. After undergoing a radical
mastectomy and chemotherapy, she thought she might have beaten the disease, but it later resurfaced and metastasized to her lungs... A new robot is being introduced at Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital in Elk Grove Village to help stroke survivors learn to walk again. The KineAssist gait and balance training system helps physical therapists work safely and more effectively with patients... TM Read more about New Robotic Technology at Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital Alexian Continues to Provide Exceptional
Rehabilitation Services
Several years ago, when Alexian Brothers Health System announced a long-term plan to expand its network of health-care facilities for residents of Chicago's northwest suburbs, one of the cornerstones of the plan was a rehabilitation hospital. Alexian Brothers Corporate and Community Wellness Wellness Services The High Cost of Avoidable Disease Alexian Brothers Corporate and Community Wellness is committed to helping organizations control escalating healthcare costs.  Billions of dollars are spent annually on healthcare and much of the spending could be avoided.  Ninety percent of Type 2 diabetes and 80 percent of coronary heart disease could be avoided or delayed with regular physical activity, quitting smoking, and reducing stress.  (SOURCE:  World Health Organization, 2005)  Specific types of cancers, diabetes, and cardiovascular
disease are linked to lifestyle behaviors and can prematurely diminish the health and productivity of individuals.  Alexius Medical Center Campus The Alexian Brothers Hospital Network has delivered a wide range of top quality pediatric services for some time. As the communities
we serve have grown in population and their
medical needs have evolved, we are moving forward to build a state of the art facility to house many of these services on the campus of St Alexius in Hoffman Estates.  Named the Alexian Brothers Children’s Hospital this center will provide a medical home for the area’s children and offer our pediatricians and pediatric specialists a superior facility in which to practice. Our Center is open Monday through Friday from 6:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. We offer full-time, part-time and
variable
schedules to meet the needs of today's busy families. Our specific
programs include: children from 6 weeks of age
through 3 years of ageInfant/toddler care: ages 3 through kindergartenPreschool: program that offers small class sizes and curriculum tailored to your child's development levelA full-day kindergarten enrolled at the Center: kindergarten through 12 years oldWinter, spring and summer camps for children > > > Alexian
Brothers Home Our Services AlexianConnects
Physician Appointment Service Physician Appointment Service Do you need a physician? AlexianConnects Can Help. If you would like to make an appointment with a top Alexian Brothers primary care physician or specialist, AlexianConnects will get you an appointment with the right physician. Same day appointments are also
available.AlexianConnects is a free physician appointment service. These physician are among the best in the area and comprise the staffs of the four hospitals that are part of Alexian Brothers Hospital Network. These hospitals are Alexian Brothers Medical Center and Alexian Rehabilitation Hospital in Elk Grove Village and St. Alexius Medical Center and Alexian Brothers Behavioral Health
Hospital in Hoffman Estates. We are a comprehensive treatment care center utilizing cutting-edge technologies including 64-slice Computed Tomography (CT) Scan, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) CAT Scan and Breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) as diagnostic tools. We also have the ability to deliver radiation through the following techniques: High Dose Rate Brachytherapy (HDR), Mammosite and Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). For additional information visit 
www.alexian-cancer.org Find information on offered through The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network clinical trials Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow Is it really all about the hair? I am a breast cancer survivor and I often tell others about my experience. One of the first questions I usually get is, did you loose your hair?   One of the things The Cancer Institute at Alexian Brothers Hospital Network can do to help minimize the trauma of loosing your hair during treatment is to offer a solution... About Alexian Brothers Children's Hospital Pediatric Services When your child is ill or needs immediate medical attention, you want to know that you are getting the best care available. We are known for providing the highest standard of healthcare. Currently, Alexian Brothers Children's Hospital is located on the fourth floor of
St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates. Alexian Brothers Children's Hospital will have a future home of a brand new center. The center is also committed to providing the highest level of technology and the latest surgical
techniques.  Alexian Brothers ophthalmologists were among the first in the area to implant new multifocal intraocular lenses that allow patients undergoing cataract surgery or refractive lens
exchange procedures to have excellent vision for reading as well as
distance without the use of glasses. Alexian Brothers Ophthalmology Services recently established a unique partnership with The Chicago Lighthouse for People who are Blind or Visually Impaired to offer a comprehensive low-vision program based at Alexian Brothers Medical Center. The Chicago Lighthouse at Alexian Brothers is the first Chicago Lighthouse satellite program to offer
comprehensive, multidisciplinary low-vision services. > > >
Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Women's Services Alexian Brothers Women's Services Alexian Brothers Hospital Network is committed to the unique and special needs of women-offering family centric care and state-of-the-art nurseries staffed 24/7 by neonatologists and supported by
pediatric specialists at both St. Alexius Medical Center and
Alexian Brothers Medical Center. Alexian Brothers Hospital Network-where families are born. Dates will fill fast so take advantage of pre-season scheduling.Call 847-385-7170 or email Wellness@alexian.net today for more information or to schedule a convenient onsite flu clinic.   Vaccinations are also
available at
all of our SEVEN Occupational Health Clinics as well as our Travel Health Clinic in Schaumburg. There is a new vaccine that will protect against three emerging strains of influenza. Protect your company's greatest asset: its people! It's tough to predict
what
can go wrong-whether
it's your son's playground injury, your spouse's flu symptoms, your grandfather's asthma or your own backyard accident. Knowing that Alexian Brothers Immediate Care Centers are close to home offers peace of mind. Here are some of the ways we serve you and your family: Acute care for all minor illnesses and injuries Hours for Addison, Hanover Park and Palatine Immediate Care sites:     Monday - Friday 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.    Saturday & Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Hours for Mount Propsect
Immediate Care
site:    Monday - Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Modern facilities with the latest technology Information on Alexian Brothers Community Health Access Program Alexian Brothers Hospital Network invites you to participate in the NEW Alexian Community Health Access Program! We Can
Help You:  Avoid unnecessary visits to the emergency room Improve your
health Receive the primary care you need,  regardless of your
insurance or ability to pay Get information on housing and jobs Please call us at 1-630-233-5134 We're open Monday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.(by appointment only). Our services
are free and confidential. The Alexian Brothers Community Health Access Program Center is located: 1515 E. The goal of Patient Safety is to reduce mortality and morbidity and to improve the identification, analysis and reduction of risks, which could have or has caused preventable patient injury and impairment of patient safety. Patient safety includes ongoing analysis and intervention, utilizing both internal and external information to prevent error occurrence and to maintain and improve patient safety
throughout the medical center. Patient safety is designed to reduce medical errors and unsafe conditions through a systematic, coordinated and continuous approach to improve patient safety. It is the responsibility of all individuals within the organization to seek opportunities
that will
continuously improve the safety of patient care, utilization of resources, and organizational functions. Seal of the Congregation of the Alexian Brothers The seal of the Congregation is divided into three fields. In each field is a symbolic representation of the end or work of the Institute. The
upper half shows on a red background the Pelican nourishing its young with her heart's blood - a
symbol of the self-consuming sacrifice of Christian Charity. The two spades on the black blackground, in the lower half, is a remembrance of former
activity of the Alexian Brothers in burying the dead in time of calamity. Many people are beginning to understand how important it is to be proactive where their health is concerned. At Alexian Brothers Medical Group, our proactive attitude has led to the creation of a
Center that addresses healthy nutrition and weight management, as well as early detection and disease prevention. We accept all major insurances Friendly and well-informed personnel will be very happy to assist you with your insurance needs and requirements. Feel free to call any
of our Alexian Brothers Medical Group
offices to discuss your insurance questions or needs. From routine treatment of superficial spider veins to the removal of complex varicose veins that could pose a health risk, The Advanced Laser Vein Center treats patients with scientifically proven methods of care and high patient satisfaction. The Advanced Laser Vein Center is led by a board-certified plastic surgeon. Working with a dedicated healthcare team, our physicians have revolutionized vein care for thousands of patients with outpatient, quick treatment and outstanding results.
Alexian Brothers Sleep Health Center About Us A good night's sleep is just as important to our
overall health as diet and exercise. In addition to feeling refreshed and alert, sleep plays a key role in helping us fight disease. A lack of sleep may cause you to: Lose concentration at work or school Perform less efficiently Respond to others with less patience and more irritability Feel tired upon awakening and/or throughout the day Unexpectedly nap at inappropriate times (at your desk, during a boring meeting, while eating, or in a theatre) Have long term health consequences Therefore, we treat them with respect.Dignity of the Person. We
serve the sick, aged, dying and unwanted of all
socio-economic levels,
especially the poor.Care of the Poor. We promote healing of the whole person (body, mind and spirit) through physical, psycho-social and spiritual care of the whole person.Holism. We collaborate with those who share our ministry
in carrying out Our mission.Partnership. New Year! Welcome to the Congregation of Alexian Brothers of the Immaculate Conception Province - American Province The Congregation of Alexian Brothers is a lay, apostolic Catholic Order whose Brothers, bound together by religious vows, dedicate themselves primarily to live in community and to participate in the ministry of
healing in the tradition of
the Roman Catholic Church. For almost 800 years, the Alexian Brothers have cared for the sick, the aged, the poor and the dying. The basic Judeo-Christian beliefs that inspired the founders of this Catholic religious congregation continue to sustain its ministry today. The first initiative was the establishment of The Lung Diagnostic
Center, which provides advanced diagnostic testing services, including pulmonary function testing, integrated cardiopulmonary exercise testing and upper airway evaluation for vocal cord dysfunction syndrome. Over the last two years, the Alexian Hospital Network has established a multidisciplinary lung
cancer team that
reviews cases
and strives to ensure that patients are evaluated and treated in a manner supported by national guidelines. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Alexian Brothers Home Health Care Alexian Brothers Home Health Program Individuals who qualify for home care receive continuing, holistic care from a multidisciplinary team that believes in advocacy and quality of life for patients. The ultimate goal is for the patient to achieve independence and return to previous health status. Our services are supported by the United Way , Allied Arts of Greater Chattanooga , City of Chattanooga , Community Foundation of Greater Chattanooga , City of Soddy-Daisy , Hamilton County , Southeast Area Agency on Aging and Disability , Senior Service America , and Corporation for National and Community Service . In 2004 AlexianBrothers added Senior Neighbors to their extensive offerings in the Chattanooga area.Our mission to enable older persons to maintain an independent lifestyle for as long as possible made us a natural extension of the existing Alexian Brothers ministries. > > > Alexian Brothers Home Our Services Center for Spiritual Care Centers for Spiritual Care Alexian Brothers Health System's Centers for Spiritual Care For over 30 years, Alexian Brothers Health System (ABHS) has been a dedicated ministry that serves not only the physical, but also the psychological and spiritual needs of those entrusted to its care. Scientific and technological advances have enhanced the ability to care for the body.