In the Cigar Lounge, cigar enthusiasts can enjoy handmade cigars, specially dehumidified to preserve their flavor and freshness and in the Wine Bar, 120 of the best wines and is constantly open, 24-hours a day, guests can feel completely at their ease and free to allow themselves a moment of pleasure and relaxation at any time, enjoying a drink or an aperitif, whether alone or in company.The luxurious 64-room hotel offers 23 superior rooms, 35 Deluxe rooms and six Junior Suites, providing a dynamic backdrop.   Saint George Roma Property Information: The East India Company went out of existence in 1873.de facto 1857 India Mutiny During its heyday, the East India Company not only established trade through Asia and the Middle East but also effectively became of the ruler of territories vastly larger than the United Kingdrom itself. In addition, it also
created, rather than conquered, colonies. Singapore, for example, was an island with very few Malay inhabitants in 1819 when Sir Stamford Raffles purchased it for the Company from their ruler, the Sultan of Johor, and created what eventually became one of the world's greatest trans-shipment ports.   A classic film from the classic Hollywood era. If you have got this far in your life without seeing Casablanca, then youe missed one of the most honest and touching portrayals of friendship and unrequited love in film history. Humphrey Bogarte plays Rick Blaine, a cynical American ex-pat who owns a bar in Casablanca, where he leads an easy life shaking up for the regulars. The company's encounters with foreign competitors eventually required it to assemble its own military and administrative
departments, thereby becoming an imperial power in its own right, though the British government began to reign it in by the late eighteenth century. Before Parliament created a government-controlled policy-making body with the Regulating Act of 1773 and the India Act eleven years later, shareholders' meetings made decisions about Britain's colonies in the East. It seems to be a case of exaggerating reality. But
let’s clear it up. By opening this blog, I am calling on soldiers from Japan, who were in Singapore during that time, and the Japanese war archives for an official statement. Please support our duty to settle this matter, once and for all. Andreas Augustin Since 1986, The Most Famous Hotels in the World has guarded the history of Raffles Hotel in Singapore. With the discovery of the original building plans in 1987, we enabled the protection of the building, its declaration as a national monument and ultimately its restoration, giving us the hotel we have today.  Dubai Drama Group (tel: (04) 333 1155; website: ) is an amateur theatrical company with over 100 members. The British Touring Shakespeare Company (website: ) also frequently visits
the emirate. Dubai's first purpose-built Community Theatre is still in the fundraising and planning stages. Dubai has a number of dance schools, including the renowned Ballet Centre , behind Jumeirah Plaza (tel: (04) 344 9776), with ballet, jazz, tap and modern dance on offer. In 1817, a year after his return to England, Raffles sat for Sir Francis Legatt Chantrey () and paid 126 pounds in cash for the marble bust, "an image of the recently knighted Raffles resplendent in youth and vigour". When Raffles returned to Sumatra in 1818, he realised that he was not truly welcomed by the Dutch colonial authorities. He carried with him the marble bust sculpted by Chantrey but transferred it to his wife, Lady Raffles, for safe-keeping. Unfortunately, it is believed that the original bust sank with the ship, the on 2 February 1824. This approach lasted for a
dozen years, and
then in 1612 the company switched to temporary joint stocks and finally to permanent joint stocks in 1657. Supposedly a monopoly, the company evenentually faced competition from another group of English investors and merchants, and the two merged in 1708 as the .United Company of Merchants of England Trading to the East Indies According to the ,Encyclopedia Britannica The company met with opposition from the Dutch in the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) and the Portuguese. Is it possible that a collective suicide of 300 people went down unnoticed?  To refresh your memory: during the Japanese occupation of
Singapore (15 February 1942 – 22 August 1945), Raffles was renamed Syonan Ryokan, incorporating ‘syonan’ ("Light of the South"), the Japanese name for occupied Singapore, and ‘ryokan’, the name for a traditional Japanese inn. Until the end of the war, Singapore, and with it of course Raffles Hotel, remained occupied by the Japanese. After the surrender of the Japanese
forces in 1945, many officers and soldiers committed suicide. So where did these websites get the 300-strong grenade suicide idea from? Hotels offer everything from traditional Christmas festivities to romantic Valentine meals, and shops and supermarkets stock gifts and cards for
all occasions. Public holidays not associated with the Islamic calendar include UAE National Day, celebrated on 2nd December. Father of Dubai: Sheik Rashid Bin Saeed al Maktoum (1999) by Graeme Wilson is a detailed tribute to the founder of Dubai that gets to the heart of the Emirate. Child 4   George Roma is the new luxury boutique hotel with a contemporary air, designed by Lorenzo Bellini in one of the most enchanting areas of Rome. The hotel rises along the distinctive Via
Giulia, a street beloved of the Romans for its
antiques dealers,
churches and old noble palazzi.This property is home to the newly inaugurated Terrazza Rose, the first roof terrace in Europe to be dedicated exclusively to rose wines. 6 halves slow roasted quinces 500g ready made puff pastry 5 pumps stirred into…NoMU Vanilla Paste, 200ml double
cream I know this does not fit into our pasta theme for month, but after shooting last month's mailer we had left over quinces so decided to make quince tarte tatin for a dinner party. They were just too delicious not to share the recipe with you! Quince tarte tatin Follow the same method for slow roasting the quinces in last month’s mailer, the only difference is to peel the quinces before roasting them. Very lightly flour and roll out a sheet of puff pastry. Using a large cookie cutter or small saucer, cut circles about 10cm in diameter out of ready made puff pastry. So if you’re on your own this Valentine’s Day get down to your local video shop and pick up a copy of Casablanca, make yourself one of Rick Blaine’s , and remember that it’s better to have loved and lost, than never to
have loved at all. Someone pass me a tissue! Singapore Slings The Singapore Sling is a cocktail classic – fruity and endlessly drinkable, if you can’t decide what to have from the cocktail list, order one of these. First served in the famous Raffles Hotel – the coolest hangout in Singapore during the early part of the 20th Century – by a cocktail waiter called Ngiam Tong Boon. The restaurant is just inside the lobby entrance of Raffles Hotel and carries the trademark Raffles elegance throughout its decor. Very British Raj. This information was accurate when it was published, but can change without notice. Please be sure to confirm all rates and details directly with the companies in
question before planning your
trip.Note: All meals served buffet style. Breakfast S$41 (US$24); lunch S$43 (US$25); high tea S$37 (US$22); dinner S$46 (US$27),P Price Stay 3 consecutive nights, receive free daily breakfast and 1 complimentary buffet dinner for 2 persons at the bar and billiard room. (To qualify for any or all of the above offers, guests must start and complete their stay between the dates specified).Honeymoon Offer: All Guests Offer: Prices Prices start from per person sharing for 5 nights in a Courtyard Suite on a bed & breakfast basis. Price includes flights with Air France via Paris, Lufthansa via Frankfurt or Swiss International Airlines via Zurich and airport transfers. Extra Nights start from per person per night.€1899€251 The interior of the hotel was designed by the Dubai-based LW Design group. Construction began in April 2005 and the hotel began its
operations in 2007. The Dubai Raffles project is also noteworthy because it was perhaps the first ever Raffles hotel
to be newly built, as most
hotels operated by the company are mostly buildings with historical importance which were bought over by Raffles Hotels and Resorts. [] edit Special Features The Egyptian themed pyramid shape is considered the most striking feature of the hotel. The hotel is topped with a glass capstone that constitutes three stories of its structure. As Ilsa and her husband walk into Rick bar, Bogarte utters the famous line f all the gin joints
in all the world, she walks into mine.This remark heralds the beginning of an emotional sequence of events that lead him down a very slippery path. Singapore Slings       Amid a plot
designed to boost
patriotism during the
1939-45 war, and some poor special effects, the real highlight of the film is the relationship between the characters of Rick and Ilsa. The chemistry between Bogarte and Bergman make their scenes together almost electric,
and the climax of the film - where Rick makes the ultimate sacrifice for the woman he loves – can’t fail to make the iciest of hearts melt. I had never heard this story. Some of my staff like our cashier Tan Geok Swee worked at Raffles during the Japanese occupation and never mentioned this. And he told us lots of stories.’Roberto Pregarz Meanwhile, , the first biographer of Raffles Hotel, who interviewed former Raffles employees and managers for her detailed account, equally confirms:‘It’s seems to be an extreme exaggeration of old stories, like the legend that the guests at Raffles danced on until very late in
the Japanese bombardment of Singapore etc (true – but not as late as this story suggests) and that a couple of Japanese soldiers may have committed suicide in the hotel at the end of the war. There are a series of beautiful courtyards and gardens, a roof top swimming pool and bar, a luxurious RafflesAmrita Spa and Raffles Hotel Arcade with over 40 shops, Raffles Culinary Academy, Raffles Hotel Museum and a theatre playhouse. All 103 elegantly furnished Courtyard Suite, surrounded by lush gardens, have a separate parlour, 24-hour personal Raffles Butler service, ceiling fan, air-conditioning, bath and shower, telephone, television and minibar. Twohigs Touch Receive fruit and flowers. Stay 2 consecutive nights, receive a bottle of champagne
and 10% discount on all
Raffles ‘Amrita’ Spa treatments. 01 Nov 2008 to 28 Feb 2009 and 01 May to 31 Aug 2009. Make sure the puff pastry is nice and snug around each quince! Repeat as necessary. Place in a preheated oven of 200°C for 20 minutes. When the puff pastry has risen
and is golden brown, remove the muffin tray from the oven and allow to stand for 2 minutes. Then using a spoon simply lift the tarte tatin’s out of their moulds and onto individual dessert bowls. Spoon extra syrup around the tarte tatin and serves with vanilla cream.