offers local and off-shore fishing charters to the
waters of  Desecheo, Mona
and the Dominican Republic.
For the last thirteen years, Captain Frank Anderson has been running a charter boat out
of Rincon for fishing, diving, and whale watching. Moondog Charters     The offers fitness activities at little or no cost. Our modern facilities
include a lighted oval track, a gym, aerobics, fencing classes, basketball and a baseball stadium. Our parks and nature trails provide exercise venues surrounded by the awesome beauty of Rincon. Rincon Municipal Sports Center  The Lazy ParrotInn, mini-Resort & Condos The Rinc n Lighthouse and romantic sunsets are just a few minutes from The Lazy Parrot Inn.     Rincón Sun & Fun - just minutes from The Lazy Parrot Rinc n is a beautiful and peaceful small town with a laid back Caribbean attitude... Beautiful Beaches and Green Natural Scenery are just minutes from The Lazy Parrot Inn. There
are lots of beaches just
minutes away from The Lazy Parrot - whether you want the activity and beach bars of just down the hill, the excitement of surfers and whale watching from the intimate beaches on The Sunset Coast, mingling with the local beach scene around the Marina & Downtown's Public Beach and new beachfront Marketplace, or the serene waters of our Caribbean Coast - discover a new beach every day of your visit to Rincon!: Beaches Nearby The Fun Coast Even if you're not a fanatic for Surfing or
SCUBA Diving - Rincon has
some of the best water sports operations in Puerto Rico - you may want to extend your stay to play in our Caribbean paradise of Porta del Sol - the Gateway to the Sun and Caribbean FUN!: Snorkeling & Water Sports The best fishing boat charters are a shot drive from The Lazy Parrot for Light Tackel Fishing or Billfish depending on the season. Check each website for details.: Deep Sea Fishing Rincon is the Town of Beautiful Sunsets - but there is nothing like seeing the sunset from a sailing boat that cruises along the Puerto Rico coast with a view of Desecheo Island in the distance.: Sailing & Sunset Cruises Rincon Activity Guide Select the activity
that you prefer, or browse them all. Come explore our coastline like few others can while you sip a cocktail, stop for a swim or snorkel, bask in the
sun, enjoy lunch, or glimpse one of our famous sunsets! Come experience Rinc from a whole new perspective.     offers tropical elegance at water's edge of the most fabulous beach in Puerto Rico. Our classic beachfront bed & breakfast accommodations offer comfort and elegance in a casual setting. We offer a variety of rooms and apartments. Each unit was designed to provide awesome
beach views and intimate settings. Our rooms and suites provide the old-world charm of Rincon, in a private setting, with your own swimming pool and tropical garden. magazine named Tres Sirenas Beach Inn one of the 27 Affordable Beach Resorts in the world.Tres Sirenas Beach InnTravel & Leisure    
offers well-appointed rooms, suites and aparments
overlooking the Rincon Lighthouse, and Desecheo Island, as well as the best surf breaks, offering the best views in Rincon.Vista Vacation Resort Return to Main Lodging Page, See Rincon past & present. Visit our Sights page. is
Rincon's newest location to relax and enjoy the beauty and spectacular sunsets of Corcega Beach.The Pineapple Inn     offers rooms at economic prices. Rooms are equipped with queen size beds, air conditioning, cable TV. Only 3 blocks from the beach and within walking distance to many restaurants,
bars, grocery stores and more. If your traveling on a budget, we are the place for you.Rincon Inn     offers modern minimalist suites with wood floors and marble baths. Rafting on the Tanam River in the central mountains for guests who want adventure! Horseback riding at in Isabela, just next to the Villa Montana Beach Resort and Shacks Beach. Tropical Trails Rides just a short drive South... Mayaguez Zoo, Maricao Forrest, Boquer n Beach, Cabo Rojo Lighthouse, La Parguera
Phosphorescent Bay, Guanica Forest, Hacienda Buena Vista Coffee Plantation, Ponce Firehouse, Museum of Art & Trolley Tour. Tibes Indian Ceremonial Park gives an idea of life during the Taino Indian era prior to the arrival of the Spanish explorers. on the 'other side' of Puerto Rico... Whale watching is fantastic during the annual migration that passes just off the Rinc n lighthouse every year from December - April. Kayaks are a great way to explore! All Year! Deep Sea Fishing Charters are available to Desecheo Island (photo at right) or Mona Island (advance arrangements needed). just a short drive north... Crash Boat Beach in Aguadilla and many other great beaches are only a few miles away... Golf is just a short drive away at in Aguadilla, or at in Cabo Rojo. Punta Borinquen Golf Club Club Deportivo del Oste is just south of Isabela. A great choice for a day of hiking and eco-tourism Guajataca National Forest Shacks beach in Isabela is a favorite for snorkelers and just a few minutes down the beach, Jobos is a favorite for surfers on the North Shore. To help you plan
your trip to Rinc, we've organized our accommodations, restaurants and other listings by their location within the town of Rinc.  You'll want to explore all of Rincon, but this list will help you plan your visit based on the area that best suits your personality and needs. Copies of the Rincon Tourism Map are only $2.00 plus shipping and
will help you plan the best vacation to Rincon possible. Click on the sample map below to get an idea of the map. Click here for high-resolution version (1.3MB - magnifying glass icon will increase size of image). Rinc is featured on The Travel Channel's 'Puerto Rico Top 10 Countdown' - January 2007 Home   RinconMap   Getting to Rincon   Rincon Hotels A-Z   Rincon Hotels by
Location   Rincon Hotels by Need   Rincon Restaurants   Local Rincon Guide   Rincon Listings A-Z   Rincon Listings by Location   Rincon Beaches   Rincon Water Sports   Rincon  Activities   Rincon Links    Puerto Rico Weddings in Rincon Book early for the peak season and holidays. Make sure that your reservation is confirmed. Advertise Here The best Inns and Guest Houses in Rincon. Click any image for more information.   is the ultimate Rincon beach experience. Roll out of bed and hit the waves! Enjoy the decks and terraces that offer stunning seascapes. Stroll the sandy beaches. Enjoy a delicious lunch or dinner, right by the sea. Later, party at the Tamboo Beach Bar to the sounds of the best island music and reggae.Beside the Pointe     Blue Boy Innis a elegant B & B, a short walk from the best
beaches in the Caribbean. Located in beautiful Rincon, Puerto Rico, well-known for surfing, diving and spectacular sunsets, Blue Boy Inn offers wonderful Caribbean accommodations with a traditional European-style bed and breakfast service. and go 1.6 miles to the traffic light (cemetery is on your right). Make a right on #417 At the cemetery several roads merge. Take Avenida Nativo Alers .(the sign is in the middle of the fork - take the left road) You are now on the bypass around Aguada. Go 1.5 miles and turn left when the road ends at #115. Our goal at Casa Verde is to provide you with excellent accommodations, service and information guaranteeing your enjoyment while visiting Rincon, Puerto
Rico.Casa Verde Guest House     offers an oceanfront vacation, in front of of Puerto Rico's best swimming and snorkeling beach.Coconut Palms From our huge oceanside verandah, you can view the best sunsets in Rincon. Coconut Palms is a great place to host weddings, corporate team-building seminars, and large parties. making a right on #417 Mayaguez Airport (MAZ) to Rinc n Make a right out of airport parking. Right at the end of road which is #2. At the 2nd light (#115) make a left.
Follow #115(pass 2 Texaco gas stations, one
on the right the other on the left). This is the road past 'Mango Alley' & Rincon's Caribbean Coast into Downtown Rincon! To reach the Puntas 'Fun
Coast' and Sunset Coast -
make a left at the Libanese Bakery and follow the road until it dead ends at Route #413 and then follow 'The Road to Happiness'. El Yunque National
Rainforest near Luquillo is a full day trip - great if you want to 'circle the island'. Luquillo Beach makes a great combination with a day-trip
to El Yunque. Old San Juan has to be a part of your visit to Puerto Rico. A full day trip from Rinc n - or stay for a few days before or after. Bacardi has a tour through their rum distillery in Catano - just a short ferry ride from Old San Juan. The new museum of Art in San Juan is worth a visit for Puerto Rican and visiting exhibits. The four suites accommodate up
to sixteen guests, making it perfect for groups traveling together.Suites at 413     Surf787is the perfect destination for families or a large group. We offer 6 guest rooms, which accommodate up to 14 people and your stay includes breakfast. You can rent a room, or the entire Villa. We offer a swimming pool, beautiful ocean views, plenty of parking and tranquility. Our game room has ping pong, pool table, darts, board games and work-out equipment.Guest Villa Join us as we celebrate another season. There are 36 painting by Roberto Ortiz, along with a few sculptures. Opening hours are 12 to 6 pm. Saturday December 6, 2008 Season Opening Secret Garden Art Gallery New Orleans' June 2008 Gambit
Rincon PR "these new
paintings seem very much in the tradition of Caribbean abstraction... and convey a sense of the light and texture of Caribbean or Mediterranean places where exuberant joie de vivre is mingled with blood and rust, the dark sediment of history. The Caribbean casts everything in high relief, and here
there's a sense of
structures etched with eroded layers of human drama, of
walls that read like palimpsests. MON, THU, FRI, SAT, SUN  3:40PM  4:20PM You can also check the best connecting flights from other cities by using Travelocity to see if there is convenient connecting service from your city to Aguadilla (airport code BQN) - Check Flight Timetables with Travelocity If you're using an online service such as , , or to book your airline tickets, remember that the airport code for San Juan is SJU, Mayaguez airport code is MAZ and the airport code for Raphael
Hernandez Airport in Aguadilla is BQN.  However, not all of these online booking services display flights on . Booking Air Online: www.travelocity.com www.expedia.com www.orbitz.com JetBlue is based in the town of Rincon. We invite you to join us for a day of deep sea fishing aboard our 31' Contender.  We offer full day and 1/2 day charters, as well as tournament charters. For varied interests, we offer trolling, bottom fishing, live-bait fishing
and kite fishing. We also offer everything from light tackle fishing up to 50 lb stand-up tackle.Makaira Fishing Charters On the right will be #413 (Bo. Puntas – El Faro sign), take that 1.5 miles. You will see the Speedway Gas Station You are now in Puntas on Route #413 - Welcome to Rincon! Depending on where you are staying in Rincon - you'll want to get specific directions from their own website - or just stop and ask along the way!  Getting lost in Rincon is almost impossible - and exploring is lots of fun!   Combining the rugged bike and beach trails with the active surf of Punta Higuera, the Rincon Lighthouse Park area is the perfect venue for the , which takes place in April.Puerto Rico Off-Road Triathlon In keeping with
community standards,
Rincon|Onlinedoes not sponsor nor advertise activities or sporting events that are sponsored by Alcohol or Tobacco companies. Check Availability & Make Reservations. See Rincon past & present. Visit our Sights page.   is nestled in the hills of Ensenada with breathtaking views of the Caribbean Sea. Allow us your hosts Jethro & Ruth Wickenden to introduce you to a blend of Caribbean paradise mixed with old English charm, with first class surf breaks, world class diving and stunning beaches only minutes away.La Rosa Inglesa Bed & Breakfast     LemontreeOceanfront Cottagesare all directly oceanfront and ideally situated as your base for your Puerto Rican holiday. The laid back and relaxed tropical lifestyle and
atmosphere
enables you to relax your body, renew your spirit and
reawaken your senses. ...'the jewel of the Puerto Rican travel experience'- Frommer's March 10, 2006 Rincon Map Fund Purchase 2008 Rincon Tourism Maps Online - $2.00 plus shipping Its even easier to explore Rinc with a copy of our new tourism map produced by the Rincon Map Fund!  The easy to use map is for sale at most hotels, guest houses, resorts and shops that are members of the Tourism Association of Rinc, Puerto Rico. Hertz has rental counters at all Puerto Rico airports.(see
listing below) Driving in Rincon is easy. Its even easier if you purchase a copy of our Tourism Association Map when you arrive at your hotel, guest house or resort. The map makes it easy to explore the best of Rincon.  But don't worry - even without the map, if you take a wrong turn its just one more great place to discover. The roads are small two-lane 'country roads' with some twists and turns - but they are easy to navigate. The beaches all have public access and parking is
available for most beaches. We strongly advise renting a car for your vacation in Rincon, since exploring our corner of Puerto Rico along Route # 413 is one of the highlights of any trip to Puerto Rico's 'Porta del Sol'.  There are so many different beaches to discover and so many great places up
in the hills to watch the sunset - you'll love jumping in your car and explore! You will find easy driving instructions below. Car rentals are
easy to arrange at all
airports.See listings below. To go to the Puntas Beaches -  go down the hill to the right just after the Speedway Gas Station or if you miss that turn, you can catch the road again just after the Puntas Bakery. Aguadilla Airport (BQN) to Rinc n Make a left out of airport parking and another left at the stop sign onto #107. By the fourth light you need to be in the
right lane and enter #2 South. It is the only Dive Center
that has its own boat in
Rincon. Our Dive Masters are the most experienced and have taught most of the other Rincon dive operators. Go with the best,   Taino DiversDive Rincon, Dive Taino!     give you the  opportunity to see Rincon
from its clear sky. Safely fly over the tranquil and crystal clear off-shore waters. View Rincon's beaches, the town and its and country side. This is a must-do activity for all!    Flying Fish Parasail     urf 787Sis the only Surf School in PR that offers an elegant Villa for its guests. Our Surf School is open year-round. We also offer a Surf Camp for kids June through August. The Lazy Parrot is a great place for Yoga Retreats or for a Massage
in your room. There are several yoga instructors and massage therapists who will come to the hotel - or are just a few minutes from the hotel.: Yoga & Massage : Rincon has quite a few art galleries and some very interesting local shops... as well as listings for banks, churches, car rentals, taxis and tours. Shopping Guide Day Trips and Sightseeing Beyond Rincon just a few
minutes away... Our closest beach is just 1/2 mile away. 1 mile to lighthouse, Marias & Domes surfing beaches. 1.5 miles to Steps snorkeling
beach. SCUBA Diving or snorkeling can be arranged for those who want to explore the world beneath the sea! All Year Round Once you reach
Aguadilla, the road narrows and becomes a
4-lane road with stoplights along the way. If you miss the exit to Aguada, you can just continue to Mayaguez and pick up Route #115 from the opposite direction.  From SJU Airport - follow signs to Highway 26 (San Juan) upon exiting the airport ---DO NOT GO OVER MOSCOSO BRIDGE. Take Autopista (toll road) #22 (Bayamon). You will follow #22 until Arecibo and pay several tolls -you can get rid of your pennies too!