(Part 4 of the video link–3 minutes into it) Posted
in | 1 Comment Uncategorized
One Response to “Warren, Obama, and McCain” on September 21,
2008 at 10:36 pm karen Excellent debate. Thank you RIck. I wasn’t sure who to vote and this cleared my
decision. McCain is clearly ready for
presendient–He is clear, strong, conviction. Hearst sent a to his
newspaper editors reading "Puff Graham" during Billy Graham's late 1949 Los Angeles crusade. The result of the
increased media exposure from Hearst's newspaper chain and
national magazines caused the crusade event to run for eight weeks five weeks longer than planned. put him
on the cover of in 1954. William Randolph Hearst [13] [14] [13] telegram [5] [3] [13] Henry Luce TIME Do you want to get
unstuck? Here's how.
Drawing simple but powerful truths from the
Bible, this book gives you
practical guidance for specific types of
change, and
it links you up with the power
to actually make the changes you long to make. As you apply the truth of God's Word by the power of the Spirit, your life will change. His book is divided into forty chapters, and you're supposed to read one per day. Each
chapter ends helpfully with a
simple "Point to Ponder," a Bible "Verse to
Remember" and a "Question to Consider."The Purpose-Driven Life
Share this article Hillary Clinton Wendy Kaminer The
Transformation of American
Religion Rick Warren has played an important role in our latest passion play. Several retellings of the Bible, or parts
of the Bible, have also been made with the aim of
emphasising its literary
qualities. The Bible
King James Version []
edit Christian non-fiction Letters, theological treatises and other instructive
and devotional works have been produced by Christian authors since the times of Jesus. For early Christian
times almost all writing would be non-fiction, including letters, biblical commentaries, doctrinal works and . He had his own band until the mid-1990s and has played with the New Sunshine Jazz Band,
Hill City Jazz Band, Not So Modern Jazz Band and the Phoenix Jazz Band. Here are a few tracks: SAM SMITH'S
DECOLAND BAND JELLY ROLL
PHOENIX JAZZ BAND APEX BLUES     Sam playing with the
Phoenix Jazz Band at the Central Ohio
Jazz festival in 1990. The Purpose Driven Life: What on Earth
Am I Here For? by Rick Warren   Rick Warren’s second book can very well be the bestseller that won’t go away.This book is on EVERYBODY’S must read list, as it has logged record time on several renowned bestseller lists.Asking the question – “manifests the main themes as the author gives compelling reasons why we should expect more out of life,
and how we can get there living a purposeful life.We as abiding Christians and those looking for a new lease on life can appreciate the fact that Gold planned
everything.With this in mind, every human has a diving, unfailing purpose, according to God’s
master plan.Everyone who calls upon Him has been predestined to fulfill their purpose through
diverse, yet individual gifts.  What on earth am I
here for?”     Downloads and Widgets Newsletter Sign-Up Sign up for the Monthly
Update and get the latest book releases, author updates, and more. Enter your
email New York Times Bestseller Description Hailed by as the "the most influential pastor in America," and by as one of the 100 most influential people in
the world, the bestselling author of expounds on
the profound origins of
Christmas, describing it as an opportune time to welcome peace into our lives.The
EconomistTimeThe Purpose Driven Life : Warren
and his wife, Kay, have three children...
His father, father-in-law,
and great-grandfather all were pastors... His semi-autobiographical 1995
book includes an account of his promise to God that
"I'd give my entire life to pastoring a
single church if that was his will for me." This occurred at the 1973 California Baptist Convention in San
Francisco, where W.A. Criswell of First Baptist Church, Dallas,
personally prayed for
him... Warren may be opposed to gay rights
and abortion, the thinking goes, but he tells evangelicals it is their God-given duty to
battle one of the greatest pandemics in history.
What could be wrong with that?Meet the Press But since the Warren inauguration controversy erupted, the nature of his work against AIDS in Africa has gone unexamined. Warren
has not been particularly
forthcoming to those who have attempted to look into it. - Famous Indian mystic,
philosopher, guru and yogi.
Sri Aurobindo Quotes - Spiritual leader
who was the founder of Bábism. Báb Quotes - Indian yogi, guru
and fakir. Sai Baba of Shirdi Quotes - Famous spiritual
quote by the German born Pope in Italy. Pope Benedict XVI Quotes - Famous
women's rights activist, writer and Theosophist. Annie Besant Quotes - Famous American
Orthodox rabbi and TV host. Includes: Samples
and photos of emerging church worship gatherings Recommended resources for the
emerging church The seeker-sensitive movement revolutionized the way we did
church and introduced countless baby boomers
to Jesus. Yet trends show that
todays post-Christian generations are
not responding like the generations before them. As we enter a
new cultural era, what do worship services look like that are connecting with the
hearts of emerging generations? How do preaching, leadership,
evangelism, spiritual formation, and, most of all, how we
even think of church need to change? We'd like
to help end corruption and injustice.' "So," he says, "I started
making the appeal for people of goodwill, whether they
happened to believe, as I do, that Jesus Christ is the son of God,
or not, to work together on the areas where we can work together, and not
worry about the areas where we can't." Says Warren, "We'll work with
anybody who wants to
stop AIDS." And that, he says, "really makes
the fundamentalists mad." Smith contends that Crystal Cathedral Pastor and New Age sympathizer Robert Schuller has had
a great influence on Rick
Warren’s teachings and that Schuller’s influence can be found throughout Rick Warren’s book . Smith writes, “The more I read Robert Schuller, the more I was shocked at how so many of Rick Warren’s thoughts, ideas, references,
words, terms, phrases, and
quotes in seemed to be inspired by Schuller’s writings and teachings”.The Purpose-Driven
LifeThe Purpose-Driven Life Granted, Rick Warren has been actually “good” about our need to help fight HIV/AIDS in Africa, and it’s with that common
ground that Obama is defending this pick, but there are
some serious other shortcomings with Rick Warren. That being said let’s all look at
this rationally. While this is a BAD idea of Obama’s, it’s only about a 4 or a 5
on a BAD scale of 10.
Richard Raddon, Director of the also resigned due to boycotts by the . Los Angeles Film Festival gay
community [169] [] edit Proposition 8: The Musical To
protest the passage of Proposition 8, composer wrote a satiric
mini-musical called The 3-minute video was distributed on the internet
at FunnyOrDie.com beginning on December 3, 2008. It was written and produced in just
a few days. Another excellent work by a fourth generation
former Seventh-day Adventist, who writes from extensive inside knowledge. If you have had doubts about
the cultic side of the SDA's,
this one is for you.    
 Exposing Seventh-day Adventism Seventh-day Adventism
entices
members into it using trickery
and half-truths. They tell
the unenlightened public one thing and insiders yet another. Most folks think they are supporting the troops by putting a magnet on their car, forwarding a prayer chain email
for the troops that asks you to pray one minute each day for them, or randomly sending a
care package full of baby wipes and mints
to soldiers in Iraq (to these folks, please go read James 2:16). Each chapter
contains a personal application section at the end
with a "point to ponder," a verse to remember, and a question to consider over the course of that day. Rick Warren described his book as an "anti-self-help book." The first sentence of the book reads, "It's not about you," and the remainder of the chapter goes on to explain how the quest for personal fulfillment, satisfaction, and meaning can only be found in understanding and doing what God placed you on Earth to do. For Immediate ReleaseContact: Tom Prichard                                                                Tuesday, December 18, 2008                                                                612.600.3136        President-elect Barack Obama selects evangelical
pastor Rick Warren to deliver the
invocation at his inauguration Social conservative group applauds Obama
selection Warren to pray at his inauguration. Minneapolis Tom Prichard, President of the Minnesota Family Council (MFC)
today, applauded the selection of
California evangelical pastor Rick Warren to
give the invocation at President-elect Obama inauguration next
month. applaud Mr. Obama decision to have Pastor Warren give the invocation at next
month presidential
inauguration.It demonstrates a respect for those who,
while disagreeing with him on significant issues, also have a serious concern for the moral, spiritual and social welfare of our nation.It sends the message the Mr. atheist Sam Harris Newsweek
evolution creationism Mao Stalin Pol Pot atheists [19] Focus on the Family James Dobson [20] Terri Schiavo persistent vegetative state Michael Schiavo Nazism
[21] [22] Warren has stated that is a
greater threat to the American family than gay marriage . He also publicly supported , which amended the state constitution to read, "Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California." Faith not love
is foundational for the Christian life. The first commandment is
fulfilled by faith alone.
Such faith bears fruit in love that seeks to aid and assist the
neighbor in his/her need. We "thank, praise,
serve, and obey" God not in order to gain His approval but because He created us "without any merit or worthiness of mine." The and the also performed at
the ceremony. Evangelical pastor delivered the invocation, while activist , minister of the , delivered the benediction. vocalist Aretha Franklin My Country, 'Tis of Thee John Williams [30] Air and Simple Gifts cellist Yo-Yo Ma violinist Itzhak Perlman pianist Gabriela Montero clarinetist Anthony McGill [37] [38] United States Navy Band [38]
San Francisco Boys Chorus San Francisco Girls
Chorus [8] Rick Warren [39] [40] civil
rights Joseph Lowery United Methodist Church [41] The World
Newser is World News' daily blog. Here, you'll find our staff's
thoughts on the day's news and the way we build our broadcast. Plus, we'll
share reports from our team of correspondents in the field, as well as producers behind-the-scenes. Inauguration Lineup: Bono, Garth Brooks, Springsteen,
Stevie, Usher -- The List Goes On... January 12, 2009 2:16 PM Now we want
an even better view. Here's the early read on the
inauguration entertainment lineup:
Beyonce, Mary J. I feel that I need to defend my intention to
read the book “critically.” Acts 17:11 says, “.” If they were not hesitant
to carefully examine the words of Paul, I should be ready and willing to examine what Warren has to say. Warren, on the other hand, should be happy to have people do this. It
should never be seen as an insult or as an unnecessary precaution.These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all
readiness of mind, and searched the
scriptures daily, whether those things were so Megachurch
pastor Rick
Warren appeared on many lists of top evangelical Christian leaders in the early
21st century, aided by the popularity of his
books, (1995) and the best-selling (2002). A
Southern Baptist preacher's kid fresh out of a Texas seminary, Warren believed God was
calling him to move to booming Orange County, Calif., south of Los Angeles, to start a church. He and his wife held the church's first meeting in their
living room in 1979, with one other family. He presents God as the overseer of everything that occurs in the world, and that everything has been planned prior to its occurring. God is assumed to preside over every event, including the premarital relations that lead to a child. Every mistake made by every human is apparently only leading to the master plan. His God is an omnipotent and omniscient God, possibly controlling the future to his desire. I’m really grateful for these guys
and want to share their work
with you. There are seven songs,
and you can download them free of charge at
the following link. Boyce College’s Zip File: Buck Buchanan  “Amen” Buck wrote to me about
his goal
for this album: “My prayer with this project was that God would work through this music
and let people hear it that need to know the
truth about Jesus.” That’s a prayer we can
all agree with. Many of the laypeople who began
a study of through a program had no idea that they were part of a larger
effort. It is entirely possible that by the time these people received their book, the church leadership
had already begun implementing the Purpose Driven programs and had been doing so for several months. I am aware of several churches where this was done without the knowledge or consent of the
congregation. It is not about finding the right career, achieving your dreams, or planning your life. It is not about how to cram more activities into an overloaded schedule. Actually, it will
teach you how to do less in life--by
focusing on what matters most. It is about
becoming what God created you to be. How, then, do you discover the purpose you were created for? Obama defended his choice on Thursday,
saying that he has also
invited Joseph Lowery, a Methodist minister and civil rights leader who
supports same-sex marriage and gay
rights, to deliver the benediction.
"During the course of the entire inaugural
festivities, there are going to be a wide range
of viewpoints that are presented. And that's how it should be, because that's
what America's about. -- Obama will take the Oath of
Office, using President Lincoln's Inaugural Bible, administered by Chief Justice John
Roberts. Scheduled around noon. -- Obama gives the inaugural address. -- Poem by Elizabeth Alexander. -- Benediction by Rev. Joseph E. Lowery. -- The National Anthem by The United States Navy Band "Sea Chanters." After Obama gives inaugural address, he will escort outgoing President George W. Phillips' prayer is as memorable as his
name, but the others seem to
me uninspired. Had they asked me,
I would have provided the prayer below. I will be happy to send a free copy of
to anyone who can provide a prayer which, in the opinion of the judges (me) is at least more memorable and appropriate than those in the book. Family
members not eligible. Rick Warren is founder and pastor of
Saddleback Church, one of
America’s
largest churches. Saddleback, in Lake Forest,
California, is associated
with the
Southern Baptist Convention. Though
he has written several books, he is best known for his Purpose Driven books. is one of the most influential books in the modern church. In it he lays down the foundation for
much of the church growth movement that we see
evident in almost every denomination. Webber Desiring God
– John Piper Experiencing God – Henry Blackaby Worship Is a Verb: Eight Principles for Transforming Worship – Robert E. Webber Worship Old & New: A Biblical, Historical, and Practical Introduction – Robert E. Webber Worship; Rediscovering the Missing Jewel – Ronald Allen, Gordon Boror Body Life – Ray Stedman Connecting (on
relationships) – Larry Crabb Connecting (on
mentoring) – Paul Stanley and Bobby Clinton
The Nature of the Church – Earl Radmacher How People Grow; What the Bible reveals about personal growth. Warren's support of
California's Proposition 8, a measure that
outlaws same-sex marriage in the state, sparked the ire of many gay rights proponents earlier this fall.
Warren, who has made it a practice not to endorse candidates or political parties, wrote in
October that the issue of gay marriage is not a political issue, but instead "a
moral issue that God has spoken clearly
about." Retail Price: $16.99 You
Save: $3.40 (20%) he Spirit
of God uses the Word of God to make
us like the Son of God.Rick Warren in The Purpose DrivenLife You were created to become like Christ.
This is one of the five God-ordained purposes for your life described in The
Purpose DrivenLife by Rick
Warren, and it why studying the Bible is so
important. Measuring Up is my take on how people,
cultures, organizations and companies stand in terms of the ways they promote themselves, show accountability, deal with
crisis, track progress, and...measure up in
today's ever changing world. Subscribe to Measuring Up A minor blotch on an otherwise wonderful day Any American who cares
about freedom and equal rights regardless of
race, religion, sex, etc., probably experienced some goose bumps yesterday. Making God appear to be like a doting
parent gaining happiness from watching his or her kid play softball does not do
justice to the Biblical portrayal
of the nature of God.Hebrews 12:28, 29 Theologically
this constitutes over emphasizing God immanence at the expense of His transcendence. This tendency is the hallmark of theological liberalism. The missions
went on for eight weeks after being originally scheduled for only three weeks. The Los Angeles revival is considered to be the time when Graham became a national religious
figure. revival meetings Los Angeles circus [4] [12] This is because Graham
received assistance from powerful news mogul , whose interest in Graham was that he respected Graham for being
his own person and following what Graham believed.
citations verification improve this
article reliable references challenged (January
2009) The trademarked term comes from the teaching of , senior pastor of in Lake Forest, California. It originally came into use as a taught to pastors
and other leaders worldwide to help them be
more effective in leading their
churches. The Church has been around for 2,000
years. We’re not a fly-by-night operation.
The Church has a track record that spans centuries: Malicious leaders have tried to destroy it,
hostile groups have persecuted it, and skeptics have scoffed at it. Nevertheless, God’s Church is bigger now than ever before in history.3.
The Church
provides the longest continuation. Why? Because it’s the Church that Jesus established, and it is indestructible. The Bible calls the Church an unshakable kingdom. <!-- Begin meta tags generated by ORblogs --> </meta name="keywords" content="progressive, liberal, politics, government, edit, language, grammar, accuracy, honesty, clarity, world, news, media" /> </> <!-- End meta tags generated by ORblogs -->> Editor at Large: Rick Warren takes another baby step Don't believe anything you read. Except for this blog. Tuesday, December 23, 2008 Rick Warren takes another baby
step Until yesterday, the Web site for the Rev.
Rick Warren's Saddleback Church stated that
"someone unwilling to repent for their homosexual
lifestyle would not be accepted as a member at
Saddleback" (see screenshot below). Hey, we're also
bringing a gay marching band. You know how the gays love
a parade." Human Rights Campaign This makes me seriously question Obama's sensitivity to the LGBT community and its quest for equal rights. I understand and
appreciate Obama's agenda of inclusiveness. But,
in seeking inclusiveness, did he
really have to include someone so divisive, who is himself against inclusion of the LGBT
community in
one of society's most revered institutions? Obama
has been scrutinized for asking Warren to give the
inaugural invocation on Jan. 20. Warren has
been raked over the coals for agreeing. Warren sent
The Brody File the following statement about
the issue: I commend President-elect Obama for his courage to willingly take enormous heat from his base by inviting someone like me, with whom he doesn't agree on every issue, to offer the Invocation at his historic Inaugural ceremony. When people lack hope, they do hopeless things. Rick Warren Quote God uses normal ordinary people in daily life. And if God only used perfect people, nothing would get done. Because none of us are perfect. Rick Warren Quote And I think the other thing
is, that opportunities are all around us, but a lot of times we're just unaware of it. While our business leaders have larger
responsibilities and more rewards, they often discover that even if work is tremendously rewarding, it doesnt fill all their needs. We hope that life is more than work. In fact, we criticize those for whom work seems to be all consuming. We intuitively know that the workaholic is out of balance.For most of us, work means a job. There is a long history behind this feeling about work. And in the pursuit of that happiness, we try all ways and means to find it. Some look for happiness by acquiring possessions. However, as you probably know from your own observations, some of the richest people around are also some of the saddest. Money cannot buy genuine long-lasting happiness. Some
look for happiness by seeking pleasure. If that were possible, then late night partying and indulgence in worldly vices would surely be the answer. more This is a must read book for any church
pastor or church leader. Rick Warren has
basically written a book which details the
methods he has used to grow a church of many thousands in West
Coast well heeled well educated America. The question is do those
same methods work in the UK (or
whichever context you find yourself in). I think the answer is yes - the stuff he writes about is just plain old common sense and very little to do with his particular context. (3) At this time in
history Warren' ludicrous statement claiming
we should "trust" Islamic Imams of any type is
unconscionable.  Islamic
Imams have taught a whole
generation of Muslims to hate Israel and the West, to either convert or kill "infidels" in obedience to their false god and their false scripture, and who are raising funds for Islamo-fascists and hiding them in Mosques.