DeLoughery
Associate Professor of Medicine defines this term and does an in depth article. Hypercoagulable States   - Summaries of the latest research concerning fish oils and blood coagulation. International Health News Database   - Brief information about these
hypercoagulability disorders including causes, treatment, and prognosis. Medline Plus: Congenital Protein C or S Deficiency   - Provides brief information about this inherited bleeding disorder, which is similar to hemophilia. Includes causes, symptoms, and prognosis. Medline Plus: Factor V Deficiency   - Brief information about this inherited bleeding disorder including causes, symptoms, and prognosis. Kidney, brain, or heart in a sterile RTT. Turn-around time is 3-4 weeks. KEY: : Green top Microtainer® tube (heparinized). Comes with or without separator gelGRT : Lavender top tube; Microtainer® LTT for aviansLTT :
Serum separator tube; Microtainer® SST for aviansSST : Red top tubeRTT   References: (West Nile Virus, update Sept. 19, 2002); Vet Pract News 14(10):1 and 11, 2002. www.avma.org     Samples for VWD Testing Testing for von Willebrand disease is best performed on citrate anticoagulated plasma (BTT). In addition the patient will be assessed for von Willebrand protein and how well it functions. The practitioner may obtain a factor VIII clotting test as well. Practitioners may also order a platelet function test to assess how well the platelets are clotting.Diagnosis: Patients should be advised to avoid aspirin, Ibuprofen and platelet altering
medications. Pics About Rare
Bleeding Disorders While
rare bleeding disorders -- those other than factors VIII and IX hemophilia or von Willebrand's disease -- are not our strongest area of expertise, we are glad to help you access information and resources. As a starting point for general information, we recommend the following: Excellent source of information about the various types of rare bleeding disorders. This disease may also alter the results of the following tests: Factor VIII level Von
Willebrand factor multimers (parts of the von Willebrand factor protein molecule) Von Willebrand disease may be hard to diagnose. Low Von Willebrand factor levels and bleeding do not always mean you have Von Willebrand disease.    Treatment Return to top Medications such as desamino-8-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP) can be given to raise the levels of von Willebrand factor, which will reduce the tendency toward bleeding. During the procedure, the band is removed to restore normal blood flow. Once the blood has been collected, the needle is removed. The puncture site is covered to stop any bleeding. For an infant or
young child, the area is cleansed with antiseptic and punctured with a sharp needle or a lancet. The blood may be collected in a small glass tube (pipette), on a slide, onto a test strip, or into a small container. Cotton or a bandage may be applied to the puncture site if bleeding continues. We also evaluate and treat children with platelet-related bleeding disorders: ITP, thrombocytopenias due to other causes, and disorders
fo platelet
dysfunction.
While one of
the newer programs in the Boston area, our program is also one of the fastest growing, with the advent of a full-service obstetrics service at Massachusetts General Hospital, the expansion of the network of Partners affiliated pediatricians, and the presence of New England’s premier clinical coagulation laboratory. If your
child has a lot
of bleeding because of von Willebrand disease,
we made need to give a blood transfusion. Transfusing blood is the process of giving whole blood or only red blood cells from a donor to a patient using an intravenous (IV) line. Other Aspects
of Care The bleeding problems experienced by vWD patients are often mucosal (nose bleeds, gastrointestinal bleeds, heavy menstrual bleeding for women, etc.). Some people with vWD receive treatment with the hormone analogue DDAVP (which is not a blood product). Where DDAVP is not effective, then replacement using plasma-derived
vWF concentrates takes place. Patient Information Leaflets (PIL) - Patient Information Leaflet (PIL)Factor
VIII/vWF Concentrate Genetic Testing (DNA Testing, Molecular Diagnosis) at the Clinical Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory of the in Duarte, California City of Hope National Medical Center Forms A completed Test Request Form (TRF) is required for all tests. Samples that arrive without a fully completed TRF will be delayed. Inclusion of a Patient Information form is strongly recommend. This enables the most optimal interpretation in reporting results with respect to observed clinical findings. California State regulations (Business and Professional Code Section 1288) requires a signature from individuals icensed to practice in the healing arts, currently limited to medical physicians, who wish to order laboratory testing. Despitethe continuing progress in defining the genetic lesions responsiblefor VWD types 2 and 3, identification of the genetic determinantsof VWD type 1 remains elusive. Herein the phenomenon known asVWD is summarized, the challenges associated with the diagnosisof type 1 VWD are described, and the role of genetic researchin meeting these challenges is explored. The authors identifykey gaps in the current genetics
literature and suggest newavenues for future research. Lastly, they explore the role ofnurses in this research and clinical endeavor. To the authors'knowledge,this review is the first to address these complex issues innursing research. The new Clinical Practice Guidelines provide the complete and authoritative presentation on the causes, diagnosis and treatment of the common, inherited bleeding disorder known as von Willebrand Disease. This is the first-ever evidence-based presentation by NHLBI on this topic, and the first ever prepared
in the United States. This handy pocket guide, derived from the Full Report, is ideal for health professionals to use as an on-the-go reference. Deals with initial screening, diagnosis, and management for patients with the disorder; along with directions for future research and recommendations for training for health professionals. Louis, Mo: Mosby; 2002:1693.Rosens Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice Sadler JE. New concepts in von Willebrand disease. . 2005;56:173-191.Annu Rev Med Update Date: 3/21/2008 Updated by: Stephen Grund, M.D. Ph.D., Chief of Hematology/Oncology and Director of the George Bray Cancer Center at New
Britain General
Hospital, New
Britain, CT. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition.