The
first weather satellite: Tiros-1 in 1960, USA. Since then we have become used to a world monitored by and four satellites (or satelites, as some people say).five geo-stationarypolar orbiting Geo What? A satellite can be launched to a perfect height and speed so that its position above a spot on the rotating earth never changes. The repeater's function is to receive the signal directly from the satellite and repeated (bounced) to customer's satellite receiver. Repeating stations are located on skyscrapers, cell-phone towers and tops of high hills. The repeater enhances the signal and clarifies it so users in areas with tall buildings or in hilly country will not lose their signal.satellite receiverground repeaters Encyclopedia article; The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition, 2004 Loading...
____________________ SATELLITE, ARTIFICIAL object constructed by humans and placed in orbit around the earth or other celestial body (see also ). The satellite is lifted from the earth's surface by a and, once placed in orbit, maintains its motion without further rocket propulsion. It all looks like fun, but is satellite radio really worth it? As with... (No rating)  1-26-2005    Views:
1554    Sirius vs. XM - Which is better? Think about getting satellite radio but not sure which service is better? If you've looked into satellite radio, you know there are three main competitors in the satellite radio market. We mix cutting-edge products from a variety of vendors with years of engineering expertise to deliver cohesive,high-end satellite Internet solutions.Our satellite Internet platforms are compatible with most VPN and VoIP solutions on the market today. View our which include 1.5Mbps upload speeds and 2Mbps download. We can provide a full line of extra features, including , and sophisticated for corporate networks. Each
satellite circles the earth twice every day. The
satellites carry and constantly broadcast the precise time, along with some other administrative information. The receiver does not need a precise clock, but it needs to have contact to four satellites in
order to unambiguously compute its own , , elevation and the precise time. This uses a series of ground reference stations to calculate GPS correction messages, which are uploaded to a series of additional satellites in geosynchronous orbit for transmission to GPS receivers, including information on delays, individual satellite clock drift, and suchlike. Although only a
few WAAS satellites are currently
available , it is hoped
that
eventually WAAS will provide sufficient reliability and accuracy that it can be used for critical
applications such as GPS-based instrument approaches in aviation (landing an airplane in conditions of little or no visibility). .: .: Satellite.info Satellite TV General Info Satellite TV - The Birth of Satellite TV Satellite TV - The Birth of Satellite TV Few people realize the birth of satellite TV began with the space race of the 1950's and 60's. On October 4, 1957, the Russian's put the first satellite, Sputnik, into orbit. GIS also allows analysts to overlay other datasets such as census demographics, locations of stores, banks and schools, etc., to better understand the underlying causes of crime and help law enforcement administrators to devise strategies to deal with the problem. GIS is also useful for law enforcement operations, such as allocating police officers and dispatching to emergencies. Search World Space Week The United Nations-declared takes place every year from . In 2007, the central topic will be the . World Space
Week celebrates the contribution of space science and technology to the betterment of the human condition. Endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1999, it marks the anniversary of two milestones in the human exploration and use of outer space: the launch of the first artificial satellite, SPUTNIK I, on 4 October 1957, and the entry into force of the Treaty Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration
and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, which took place on 10 October 1967.World Space Week4-10 October50th anniversary of the Space Age Compared to its predecessors, SPOT-5 offers greatly enhanced capabilities, which provide additional cost-effective imaging solutions. Thanks to SPOT-5's improved
5-metre and 2.5-metre resolution and wide imaging swath, which covers 60 x 60 km or 60 km x 120 km in twin-instrument mode, the SPOT-5 satellite provides an ideal balance between high resolution and wide-area coverage. From - the free . open-encyclopedia.com encyclopedia A (sometimes
abbreviated to
) is an artificial stationed in space for the purposes of using at frequencies. Most communications satellites use or near-, although some recent systems use . A place on the ground with used to transmit to or receive from these is called an .communications satellitecomsat satellite telecommunications radio microwave geosynchronous orbits geostationary orbits low Earth-orbiting satellites satellite dishes earth station Temperature and pressure were encoded in the duration of radio beeps, which additionally indicated that the satellite had not been punctured by a meteorite. A temperature regulation system contained
a , a dual ,
and a control thermal switch.
If the temperature inside the satellite exceeded 36
C the fan was turned on and when it
fell
below 20 C
the fan was turned off by the dual thermal switch. Oil,
gas and mineral deposits are the raw materials that drive the global economy. Natural resources exploitation Oil, gas and mineral exploration   As existing reserves dwindle, ensuring an adequate supply for the future requires the exploration of frontier regions for new supplies.     Inhospitable and inaccessible environments such as desert and Arctic regions are increasingly the focus of survey activities, but exploration managers find it demanding to operate in such uncharted territory, often lacking detailed maps and basic geological information about the areas they are interested
in. Signals operating above 3 Gigahertz are known as microwaves. above 30 GHz they are know as millimeter waves. As one moves above the millimeter waves signals begin to take on the characteristics of Iightwaves.Gigahertz (GHz): The angle between the orbital plane of a satellite and the equatorial plane of the earth.Inclination: Generally the smaller the satellite in the sky, the larger
the needed to or the signal. (In
satellite jargon,
the signal transmitted is the ; the signal transmitted is the . Similarly the larger and lore powerful the
satellite in space, the smaller the needed on earth to receive the signal. 63% of business people report accessing online video at least once per week 78% of them say video makes content more compelling Today, using only standard hardware and software, users all over the world can access high quality video and audio, along with integrated PowerPoint slides, downloadable study guides and other written materials. The content is 100% community driven -- users like you publish, research, and maintain the satellite images and the history/context behind them. The site interface is clean, fresh, and easy to use. Sights can be viewed through Google Maps, Windows Live Virtual Earth, Google Street View, or Google Earth KML files. To get lat/long coordinates for a specific location drag and zoom the map to the desired location
then click the map in the location you want coordinates for. The map will re-center to the clicked location, a map pointer will appear and the lat/long coordinates will appear just above the map.Geocoding:Note: The more you zoom in the more accurate the coordinates will be.   1-26-2005    Views: 7372    Satellite Internet Providers - How the Service Providers Compare There are only a few
satellite Internet providers - unlike most standard Internet services. Perhaps it's the high cost of satellite start-up, but the field has been limited to just a few excellent service providers. Satellite Internet... With a built-in dial-up modem, customers attach the phone cable to the back of their PC, the phone line plugs into the modem. The modem uses the phone line to connect to Internet service providers. Dial-up modem speeds have increased, but have flattened out at 56K transfer rates - actually the data transfer is about 48,000 bits per second exchange. AM about 5,000, FM about 5,000, shortwave 18 (1998)Radio broadcast stations: 575
million (1997)Radios: more than 1,500 (including nearly 1,000 stations affiliated with the five major networks - , , , , and ; in addition, there are about 9,000 cable TV systems) (1997)Television broadcast stations: NBC ABC CBS FOX PBS Yet different groups propose that the Moon
formed from a debris field around Earth resulting from an asteroid or planitesimal collision. More recently a has been proposed, that the Moon originated from the ejecta from the collision between a semi-molten and something the size of (speculatively called ). It has become relatively popular, and is supported by at least one computer model . lesson plans If you're interested in Canadian geography, you can also use this box to search the entire web or pages on my other site. You might have to do it twice to search stuffintheair. You might see special results at the top of the page, above the word WEB. Aerospace provides systems engineering and integration, risk-performance assessments, and assistance in product development, performance testing, acquisition management, and mission operations to the development of the
Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS). SBIRS is a planned constellation of geosynchronous-orbit satellites and highly elliptical-orbit payloads with a consolidated, common
ground system built to meet U.S. Over the past 10 years, Tongasat has, of its own initiative, submitted to ITU through the Tongan administration a portfolio of satellite network filings that are available for licensing by our clients. These filings include 9 geostationary satellite orbital positions offering C, Ku, X, Ka, L and S-bands and a number of non-geostationary network filings. March 1965 first Soviet communication satellite, highly elliptic orbit October 1965 's first satellite for commercial service INTELSAT April 1965 first national TV network based on (Russian) satellite television November 1967 first national satellite for Canada 1973
USA's first geosynchronous communications satellite April 1974 first geostationary communications satellite to be three-axis stabilized It is most effectively used between remote sites continually and permanently connected to the host, such as branch offices, retail stores or a company's manufacturing facilities. IP differs from traditional KU-band satellite in that a much smaller slice of a transponder is required to multicast video in the form of data files. It has to be over the equator for this to work. And since it is so high, it can give us a good equator map and cloud pictures over most of the earth, except for the poles. It has to go nearly 7,000 miles or 11,000 km per hour relative to the earth's axis to stay properly positioned. At the NOC, routers are connected to the Internet using OC-3 optical connections
to a Tier-I Internet
backbone provider. Proprietary acceleration and advanced spoofing technology is employed to provide IP transparency and increase throughput speed. Spoofing is what makes the service capable of very high speeds. Why is spoofing important? The entire Internet is based on TCP/IP. The unit is centrally managed from our Network Operations Center (NOC) which frees the user from hassles such as software updates. In fact, the IDU can also be managed remotely from the NOC for
configuration changes, real-time monitoring and historical
reporting. The IDU is compatible with Ku and C band service as well as Ka band service when it becomes available. delivers broadband Internet over satellite - not through your telephone line - so you can surf and talk at the very same time. A certified installer will link your computer to a satellite modem and connect it to a satellite dish antenna that's usually mounted on the roof of your house. These meteorological , however, see
more than and cloud
systems. City lights, , effects of , , sand and dust storms, cover, mapping, boundaries of , flows, etc., are other types of environmental information collected using weather satellites. satellite weather climate Earth Earth geostationary [1] satellites clouds fires pollution auroras snow ice ocean currents energy John Robinson Pierce, Communication Satellite Pioneer John Robinson Pierce, the former director of research at AT&T Bell Telephone Laboratories. Born in Des Moines, Iowa in 1910, Pierce was the first to evaluate the various technical options in satellite communications and assess the financial prospects.
In 1952, he published an article in Astounding Science Fiction in which he discussed the potential benefits of satellite communications. The book described geostationary satellites (first put forward by Tsiolkovsky) and discussed communication between them and the ground using radio, but fell short of the idea of using satellites for mass broadcasting and as telecommunications relays.Das Problem der Befahrung des Weltraums - der Raketen-MotorThe Problem of Space Travel — The Rocket Motor Multi-mode fiber can carry multiple wavelengths, is made of special clear plastic materials and has a much smaller bend radius than single mode fiber. Multi-mode does not have as long a reach as single mode fiber. Step Index Graded-Index Infra-Red There are many systems today using infra-red communications. This is usually a directional infrared light signal transmitted into the air and received by nearby devices. The flight lasted for a single orbit, and
a successful
recovery was made. Sputnik 9 (Korabl Sputnik 5) was launched March 25, 1961. It carried a dummy cosmonaut and a dog (Zvezdochka), as well as the television system and other scientific apparatus. After one orbit, a successful recovery was made. » Wildlife & Marine Conservation Satellite Imaging Services With over a decade of experience in
acquiring satellite images and airborne-sensed data, Satellite Imaging Corporation (SIC) provides top quality satellite images and other remote sensing products, (GIS) projects, and consultancy services. We are equipped to negotiate for appropriate high resolution satellite images, as well as enhance satellite image data to create accurate, interactive mapping projects. If you are passionate about sports, eager to see the latest movies and keen on a crystal clear, picture-perfect , then DIRECTV is the television provider for you! deals 31 premium movie channels 37 specialty and regional sports networks DIRECTV's exclusive NFL SUNDAY TICKET NCAA MEGA MARCH MADNESS local channels High Definition Satellite Television In each cluster, 34 districts, each containing around 1000 villages, were identified. Finally, around 400 villages were chosen in each cluster. Close to 80% villages selected for SITE did not have electricity in the buildings where the SITE TV sets would be installed. A
special project called
Operation Electricity was launched to urgently electrify the villages before the start of SITE. Amateur satellite spotting traces back to the days of early artificial satellites when the launched the (1956), a program to enlist amateur in the effort to track , in an analogy with the program to spot enemy bombers. Moonwatch was crucial until professional stations were deployed in 1958. The program was discontinued in 1975. ’Democracy Now’ is cheap, true, non-corporate news Spreading the word s radio outlets fall into two general categories, both not-for-profit: community radio stations, and affiliates of the partially government-subsidised National Public Radio (NPR) network. Community radio stations feature local programming, are often staffed by volunteers and rely almost entirely upon their audience, including local businesses, for financial support.Democracy Now (RSI), a Canadian private company, was created in 1989 to process, market
and distribute RADARSAT-1 data.
(Radarsat International, Inc. (RSI) was later acquired by .) In 2006, RSI was rebranded MDA Geospatial Services International or MDA GSI MacDonald Dettwiler and Associates As
of Sep. 2008,
RADARSAT-1 continues to operate, well beyond its planned five-year lifetime. In addition to traditional KU-band digital satellite systems, other technologies, like IP satellite and DBS (Direct Broadcast Satellite i.e., Echostar's DISH Network), are becoming network platforms of choice. IP Satellite IP Satellite provides quick, cost-effective distribution of video and data, especially to multiple remote sites simultaneously, in a way that combines satellite and Internet technologies. In accordance with the Action Plan endorsed by the General Assembly in its , the Office provides
information and advice, upon request, to governments, non-governmental organizations and the general public on space law in order to promote understanding, acceptance and implementation of the international space law agreements concluded under United Nations auspices. These infrared
pictures depict offshore pollution, ocean eddies or vortices and map currents such as the Gulf Stream valuable to the shipping industry hoping to save precious fuel by using the ocean movements wisely. and want to know land and water temperatures to protect their crops against frost
or increase their catch from the sea. The CETel services from its Teleport facilities close to Bonn, Central Germany and Hanover, North Germany and from several gateways and Teleports of its national and international partners comprise corporate VSAT networks, provision of satellite capacity, up- and downlink services and fibre
connections, operation, service & maintenance of
satellite networks, broadband Internet via satellite and consulting.Teleport & Satellite Services You can also use the links in the to help you classify this page by subject, educational level and resource type. Wikimedia Foundation informationmediaquotations"Satellite"blue box Run a search on at . Satellite Wikipedia Search for images, sounds and other media related to: Wikimedia Commons
Satellite Search for on the following projects:Satellite 178 million (1999)Telephones - main lines in use: 55.312 million (1997)Telephones - mobile cellular: a large system
of fiber-optic cable, microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, and domestic satellites carries every form of telephone traffic; a rapidly growing cellular system carries mobile telephone traffic throughout the country 24 ocean cable systems in use; satellite earth stations - 61 Intelsat (45 Atlantic
Ocean and 16 Pacific Ocean), 5Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region), and 4 Inmarsat (Pacific and Atlantic Ocean regions) (2000)Telephone
system:
One of the primary services provided by Satellite Imaging Corporation during the implementation of a GIS project is the for mapping projection. An ongoing quality control program is also maintained for
this data.georeferencing of various data layers SIC's Expertise Prevents Potential Problems Problematic Coordinates for Vector and Well Data Displayed on Satellite Image Television channels specifically built to run on cable or satellite blur the line between TV station and TV network. That fact led some early cable channels to call themselves . over-the-air mountainous superstations Satellite and cable have created changes. Local broadcast TV stations in an area can or even to be carried on cable, but content providers like cannot. HearSat was modeled after the SeeSat mailing list and website but was targeted towards satellite enthusiasts who are interested in monitoring radio signals from satellites. The web site and mailing list were originally hosted by Grove Enterprises, publishers of Monitoring Times magazine until RA Labs, owned by Bob Arnold (N2JEU), stepped forward to generously offer hosting services. Click here for Streaming and
Rich Media samples. Webcasting While streaming video is a good option for delivering content on demand, webcasting enables a live, TV-like experience via the Internet on your PC. Live corporate events like CEO company briefings, new product launches, marketing events investor presentations, and interactive distance learning are popular applications among enterprise users. Almost two weeks later, on July 23, it relayed the first live transatlantic television signal. The first broadcast was to have been remarks by , but the signal was acquired before the President was ready, so the lead-in time was filled with a short segment of a televised game between the and the at . In this
unique forum phenomena can be observed with the Earthbound complications of friction and sir resistance.
In addition to being a valuable resource for independent study, Planets and Satellites provides instructors with powerful options as well, including the ability to vary parameters and repeat specific experiments. The structuring of levels by degree of difficulty and mathematical complexity is especially convenient.  |   |   |  |  |   Home About VSAT Systems Compare Satellite Internet Contact A Sales Engineer Product Line Site Map You know it takes weeks, sometimes months, to get a terrestrial broadband connection installed. Sometimes it takes that long before the provider admits that it cannot be delivered at all. Zoomify is product suited to creating high quality maps with zoom and pan functionality. These maps can be multilayered, they can be annotated and can link to other resources. Zoomify maps can be viewed via
the Internet and they can also be stored and distributed on a CD Rom. Some examples of Zoomify maps can be explored in the column on the right helps movers set up home
services in one easy
step, with a single
phone call. Through
partnerships with national relocation service providers and real estate companies, Home Services Corp. reaches millions of new movers each year. Home Services Corp. representatives explain available options for television, Internet, local phone, home security and newspaper delivery, and help customers enroll in the services that are right for them. Some exciting uses include digital signage, digital cinema, disaster recovery and
emergency response networks, and IPTV. Can one of these uses of satellite communications help you? Trust JSAT International to be your resource for information, organization and realization.A rapidly expanding universe of opportunities is unfolding for organizations Put some space between you and the competition It also
maintains a 24-hour hotline as the United Nations focal point for satellite imagery requests during disasters and manages the (UN-SPIDER). United Nations Programme on Space Applications United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response UNOOSA is the current secretariat of the (ICG). International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite
Systems A is an object that orbits another object. pulls the satellite closer to the primary object it orbits, but the satellite is moving perpendicular to that pull so quickly that the satellite continually avoids colliding with the primary object.satellite Gravity Because all objects exert gravity, the motion of the primary object is also affected by the satellite. [] Subscribe To This
Site ? If you think
that's cool, try the software, or the online version at http://maps.google.com/ It requires a modern computer but will work for anywhere in the world. To make the details visible on the earth picture, satellite technology requires an unimaginable number of Probably more than all the combined, but who knows. By combining data and applying some analytic rules, you can create a model that helps answer the question you have posed. In the example below, GPS and GIS were used to accurately model the expected location and distribution of debris for the , which broke up upon re-entry over eastern Texas on February 1, 2003.