The culture of Renaissance Italy was
distinguished by many highly competitive and advanced urban areas. Unlike England and France, Italy possessed no dominating capital city, but developed a number of centers for regional states: Milan for Lombardy, Rome for the Papal States, Florence and Siena for Tuscany, and Venice for northeastern Italy. Yet another musical instrument that has many stories attached to it is the muyu also known as the wooden fish. This is actually a wooden instrument. The legends associated with the wooden fish all have taken place in China. This wooden fish is used especially for rituals by monks. Ancient Chinese musical instruments cannot be complete without the mention of the Yunluo. Drawings recovered from the olden era depict the yunluo with five gongs. A monophonic form of the spread widely throughout
Europe during the and 14th centuries as the music of the ; this form was known as the , and picked up the vernacular language in each country it affected, including , , and .lauda 13th flagellants Geisslerlieder Germany Poland England Scandinavia After 1480 the singing of was extremely popular in , since the monk (and others) had prohibited the dissemination of any other style of sacred vernacular music. Giovanna d'Arco La forza del destino Attila Alzira Macbeth I masnadieri London While Milan was lost and reconquered by the , Verdi wrote , , and , and started a which he would never finish. After the polemics for his , in was a triumph in , and in he had another great success with (in ) but a very sad
fiasco for the first soirées of . Austrians Il corsaro La battaglia di Legnano Luisa Miller Manon Lescaut Stiffelio 1851 Rigoletto Venice 1853 Il trovatore Rome La traviata Other famous operas follow in this period: () (), (a revision of ), (La Fenice), and (which was censored). International Alliance for Women in Music   » -
Articles and links about the entry of Jews into the musical professions in Europe in the early nineteenth century. Jewry in Music   » - Graphic timeline: typical musical forms and styles, major composers, sample MIDI files Major Musical Periods   » - Early Western and traditional non-Western music: Recording suggestions, discussion, articlesl links. Medieval Music and Arts Foundation   » - An annotated bibliography of musical compositions related to chess. Music and Chess   » - Masonic influences on Classical music, and music in the Lodge: Notes, MIDI samples, and facsimile pages. The Music of Freemasonry Either way, this new notation allowed a singer to learn pieces completely unknown to him in a much shorter amount of time. However, even though chant notation had progressed in many ways, one fundamental problem remained: rhythm. The notational system even in its fully developed state did not clearly define any kind of rhythm for the singing of notes. [1] [2] [3] neumes [4] neumes [5] actusgravisneumaticvirgaacutuspunctumgravis [6] [7]
virgapunctumneumesneumes [8] neumaticneumes [9] neumesneumesneumesneumes [10] Guido d Arezzo [11] [12] neumatic [13] From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia In November 1554, the (1 & 2 Ph. & M. c.6) revived three former Acts against ; the of of , an Act of 1401 of , and
an of of . All three of these laws had been repealed under andRevival of the Heresy Acts heresy letters patent 1382 King Richard II King Henry IV Act 1414 King Henry V King Henry VIII King Edward VI. [1] This Act reflects the concern for increased heresy and the lack of authority to deal with it. Visit the Web sites below to learn more about this period, which some
experts call the introduction to modern history. The Renaissance This interactive exhibit explains the transition from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance, the beginning of exploration and trade, and advances in architecture and philosophy. Click on the icons to try a hands-on activity. Virtual Renaissance Exhibit Read an overview of the Renaissance as a historical period, and discover the developments made in philosophy and science. Click on the links at the top to explore the period by country and to learn about the individuals who shaped the movement. All these names are somewhat inaccurate, because not all microbats f echo location Animal echolocation is the ability of some animals to locate objects by emitting sound waves and listening for the echo. This is used to detect obstacles, predators and prey. It is used by bats,
dolphins and some whales. Two bird groups also employ this s Dog This article discusses the domestic dog. For other members of the dog family, see Canidae. The dog is a canine omnivorous mammal that has been domesticated for somewhere between 14,000 and 150,000 years. In those millennia, the dog has developed into hund dog whistle A dog whistle is a type of whistle used in the training of dogs. 1838 European musical Giovanni Ricordi In his first real success was , which followed two earlier operas, (opened in on , ) and (the latter his only attempt at writing a comedy until , at the end of his career) at , with , , in the part of . Readingand computer work also require our eyes to move quickly and accurately from point to point on a page or screen.And the closer objects are, the more focusing effort our eyes have to perform.    Many visual tasks also require that we change the focus and position of our eyes quickly and repeatedly (taking notes during a classroom lecture, for example).This changing of the focus point of our eyes is called .  Accommodation   People who have perfect 20/20 eyesight can have binocular vision problems that can cause headaches, eyestrain, and blurred vision.Binocular vision problems may also cause reading problems among school-aged children.     These ancient
colonists hailed from the southern region of Spain, the provinces of Andaluc and Extremadura; from the Canary Islands; and from West Africa.     From Spain they brought the traditional romances, song genres such as the and the , and other traditional songs of ancient moorish descent. The Canary Islanders brought their diminutive timples and the Africans brought their memories of syncopated rythyms, their stringed instruments made from gourds and their drums. [] edit Historical context European polyphony rose out of melismatic , the earliest harmonization of the chant. Twelfth century composers, such as and developed the organum that was introduced centuries earlier, and also added a third and fourth voice to the now homophonic chant. In the thirteenth century, the chant-based tenor was becoming altered, fragmented, and hidden beneath secular tunes, obscuring the sacred texts as composers continued to play with this new invention called polyphony. The lyrics of love poems might be sung above sacred texts in the form of a , or the sacred text might be placed within a familiar secular melody. organum L onin P rotin trope Not that the great classics had been unable to write in seconds or to produce dissonances, but in the mixture of the outer-musical macrocosm and the inner-tonal microcosm they
rather knew the natural limits, which exist as long as the musician does not master the microcosm of music.   The Twelve-Tone Music and the Serial Composing Technique       Therefore, the great classical composers from Bach to Wagner only approached, but never crossed, the border to disharmony, and thus created mostly harmonious music. Book 1, 1587:Madrigali a cinque voci [28] Book 2, 1590:Il secondo libro de madrigali a cinque voci Book 3, 1592:Il terzo libro de madrigali a cinque voci [29] Book 4, 1603:Il quarto libro de madrigali a cinque voci [30] Book 5, 1605:Il quinto libro de madrigali a cinque voci [31] Book 6, 1614:Il sesto libro de madrigali a cinque voci [32] Book 7, 1619:Concerto. Settimo libro di madrigali [33] Book 8, 1638:Madrigali guerrieri, et amorosi con alcuni opuscoli in genere rappresentativo, che saranno per brevi Episodi fra i canti senza gesto. [34] Book 9, 1651:Madrigali e canzonette a due e tre voci [35] [] edit The Fifth Madrigal Book His final works, mostly sacred music for
his patron, culminated in two large oratorios, (1798) and (1801), the former being one of his most famous works. Haydn is often referred to as "Papa" Haydn, and there is some justification for this. Although he did not invent either the symphony or the string quartet, he was a central figure in their development. His symphonies (especially the "Paris" and "London" sets)
show a complete mastery of
form and substance, setting the stage for the works of and . For other meanings of mode, see Mode. Modes In music, a mode is an ordered series of musical intervals, which, along with the key or tonic define the pitches. However, mode is usually applied only to the sp Music critic A music critic is someone who reviews music, songs and albums, and writes about them. A music critic may also write entire books analyzing music styles and discussing music history. a. Double Clarinet b. Double Oboe c. Arghool d. Others (Bagpipe and Organ) 43 4. Percussion InstrumentsMembrano-Phone Instruments Non-Membrano-Phone (Idiophone) Instruments Human Parts (hands,
fingers, thighs, feet, etc) a. Drums b. Tambourines a. Percussion Sticks b. Clappers c. Sistrums/Sistra d. Cymbals e. Castanets f. Bells (Chimes) g. Xylophone and Glockenspiel If we assume the scale there (reasonable to do, I think, just from the unequalness of the hole spacings), then the hole spacings might possibly lead to the reconstruction of the full-length flute.The unequal spacings would be our best clue as to which holes they wereis Again, we are left with the question above: If the Neanderthals weren't seeking an unequal scale, why didn't they make the holes equally-spaced? For many of us, our focus is guided by our exposure to Mozart's personality in the film , but is that an accurate picture? Mozart's life remains a complicated puzzle. As a child, he seemed gifted beyond all measure, playing at age six before the empress, and composing at an even earlier age. By twelve he had written an opera, and his talents seemed to know no bounds. In 1613, he was appointed maestro di cappella at St. Mark's Cathedral in Venice. He remained in Venice for the rest of his life, writing music in all genres, including his final opera, (1642). Monteverdi wrote in a style that he called the , a description he used to separate himself from the more conservative tradition of and his contemporaries. For
Monteverdi, the starting point was always the words. Whatever mood the words might suggest, or whatever effect a single word needed to convey, was reflected in the music. This is the basic idea of word painting used in madrigals throughout the century. Their calm, slow melodies are built up from paired phrases reminiscent of plainchant. Problems listening to this file? See . media help [] edit Monophony with instrumental doubling DeLone et al. (1975, p.99) more loosely defines monophony as "passages, movements, or sections in which notes sound alone, despite instrumental doubling" even if "such passages may involve several instruments or voices." , , , , and others were various forms of which were all monophonic. A narrower sense of the term, usually "pop music",
covers mainstream music that does not fall into any other convenient style such as or . In the broader sense, "popular music" means any sort of music intended for mass consumption and propagated over the radio and similar media. For the varieties of popular music in this sense, see the list below.Popular music pop music music ergo jazz hip hop A defining characteristic of popular music (in the broader sense) is that it is the product of the modern business enterprise, and is disseminated for the purpose of earning a profit. It was named after one of the reputed Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove. The modern version of this instrument is structured differently. The zhu is an instrument that is not used anymore. This ancient Chinese musical instrument became popular in the Warring States Period. There have been differences of opinion to the way this instrument was used. .   Editor: Moriwaki Michio (added 2000-06-07)Copyright: Personal zipped PostScript file. look in Score Library table. Also available as PDF.Edition notes: CPDL #888: .    156 kbytes   Editor:
Gordon J. Callon (added 2000-06-05)Score information:Copyright: Personal
External link points to source file which may be
viewed with .Edition notes: Scorch .    124 kbytes   Editor: Adam P. Cole (added 1999-08-21)Score information:Copyright: CPDL NoteWorthy Composer file is .Edition notes: zipped General Information Scores of different have been created all along the Island countryside. Among them the slowest, thejaro SeguidillasCopla cantaorestrovadoresima: each line consisting of seven, eight or nine syllables seisseisseisesseis mapey/em>, the and the ; and among the fastest, the and el . The music was produced by an ensemble consisting of a cuatro, a scratch gourd called a , and a guitar or another native instrument such as a diminutive or a large And this has been the basis of the Puerto Rican traditional instrumental
folklore.seis andinoseis celinseis
chorreaoseis
zapateaoguirotiplebordon, instruments that have all but disappeared from the scene. This ensemble was know as an or orchestra. orquesta jara,jaro        =     =     =     =     = = ()    =     =     =     = BROKEN LINK PDF FILE MIDI FILE POSTSCRIPT FILEMusic ProgramNOTATION FILE EXTERNAL SITE DISCLAIMER EXTERNAL PDF FILE EXTERNAL MIDI FILE SCORE ERROR HELP MIDI and NoteWorthy Composer files.CPDL #14917: .  Editor: Brian Russell (added 2007-09-10)Copyright: CPDL Files listed alphabetically by nationality and composer. Some composers have separate pagesEdition notes: In the rush of enthusiasm for every rediscovery from Antiquity, Marsilio exhibited a great interest in the arts of , which landed him in trouble
with the Roman Church. In 1489 he was accused of magic before and needed strong defense to preserve him from the rigors of heresy.Theologia Platonica de immortalitate animae astrology Pope Innocent VIII His father was a physician connected to patron was , who took the young man into his household and became the lifelong
patron of Marsilio, who was made tutor to his grandson, . "Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves" in , also known as (lyrics with translation here - MP3: ), which still in modern times has repeatedly been proposed as a possible Italian national anthem - obviously, there is no reference to racism). More curiously, someone discovered that his surname, Verdi, is the acronym of (Victor Emmanuel King of Italy), when (still under Austrian occupation) was beginning to consider supporting Victor Emmanuel's effort in Italian reunification, as it afterwards did. The British Invasion spawned a wave of imitators in the U.S.A. and across the globe. Many of these bands we're cruder than the bands they tried to emulate. Playing mainly to local audiences and recording cheaply, very few of these bands broke through to a higher level of success. This movement that later became known gained a new audience when record labels started re-issuing compilations of the original singles, the best known of these is a series called . Some of the better known band of this genre include , , and Garage Rock Nuggets The Sonics Question Mark and the Mysterians The Standells Psychedelia, "Progressive Rock" and Woodstock (1968-1974) By 1607, he had published five books of madrigals and was famous
throughout Italy for his ability to write music that was both dramatic and expressive of word and text. At this time, a new musical idiom was being invented—, a combination of drama and music—and Monteverdi was chosen to write the music for a court entertainment in this new style. The result was , based on the story of Orpheus, the legendary hero of Greek mythology who sang and played the so wonderfully that animals, trees, and rocks were moved to dance. When a snake killed Orpheus' wife Eurydice, he followed her to the Underworld and, with music and song, persuaded Hades to release her. The theorist who is most well recognized in regards to this new style is , famous for writing the ("New Art") treatise around 1322. This treatise on music gave its name to the style
of this entire era. Further more, his contributions to the notation of rhythm made possible the free and rhythmically complex music of the next hundred years. Jump to: , navigation search In , is the identity of form of distinct forms of a word. linguistics syncretism morphological For example, in , the and forms of and are the same, whereas /, /, etc., have different forms depending on . In , the nominative and of nouns have the same form (e.g. "king" is both nominative and vocative singular). Similarly, in , the , plural present, and plural present of almost all verbs are identical in form (e.g. "to take", "we take", "they take"). » - Brief overview and biographical notes about conductors and performers in the classical tradition. Black History and Classical Music   » - (from 1988 to current) Classical Musician Recent Deaths   » - Information from Smithsonian Institute about the native Mexican folk music tradition. Includes a graphical timeline, music samples, videos, guides and background material
for teachers. Corridos Sin Fronteras   » -
Basics about the major periods of classical (art) music, with terms, composers, RAM audio examples, and purchase links. When once asked about a meager
court appointment he held, Mozart replied: "I get paid far too much for what I do, and far too little for what I could do." His music did not always
please those in power: "Too many notes," Emperor Joseph II was reported to have said. And Mozart himself, who always felt that his talents were never
adequately recognized, was often difficult. The difficulties of Mozart the man, however, are eclipsed by the enormous power of Mozart the musician. His music was often joyous and almost raucous, and yet he could also write melodies of simple and haunting beauty. It is a fundamental tenet of Islamic faith to believe in the consistency of message in the revelations from one God through many messengers to their people (Quran 2:285) and claims to be the revitalization of the original pure teaching of . In traditional Islamic belief, the revelations in the Bible and Torah, over time, eventually
became corrupted because of the lack of written manuscripts, serial translations from one language to another, or simply forgotten.[] who? It is somewhat related to the fields of musicology and ethnomusicology. Origins The origin of music are lost deep in prehistoric times. Probably the earliest forms of music were songs, possibl Politics Finance Topics: Music History Instruments Rhythm Time Archeological Western... Music of India The music of India includes multiples varieties of folk and pop music, along with Carnatic and Hindustani classical music. India's classical music tradition has a history spanning millenia and, developed over several eras, remains fundamental to the lives This period includes the Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic and Contemporary periods. The classical period of music actually spans a time from of 1750 to 1800; thus, the term Classical is a misnomer and could more correctly be changed to Western Art Music or European Art Music. Vivaldi was Italian, Bach was German, Mozart and Beethoven were Austrian; they are some of
the more prominent compose Some
topics in this essay: , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , » - (Sung by church and chapel "bands" in the UK in the 18th and 19th centuries) Includes articles, sample scores and MIDI files, links, and organizations. Gallery Music   » - Includes annotated texts about American history, from Revolutionary War songs to 1960's anti-war protests. History in Song   » - A brief history of Czech music, from the Middle Ages to the 20th century; Biographies and work of important composers. (Radio Hudba, Czech Republic) The History of Czech Music   » - Extensive hypertext article by David Courtney. Two thirds of the mind's conscious attention is taken up by what the eye sees and two thirds of the information
stored in the brain has come in by way of vision - pictures, written words other visual stimuli.  The human eye is an amazing little machine - one that transforms light rays into images that can be processed for their informational content. We offer a wide variety of  anatomical models of the human eye.  They provide everything from an introduction to vision to how the eye works.  Some are perfect for grade school students, but others are more suitable for medical schools and hospitals that need greater detail.  They are very useful for patient education and are essential to ophthalmology.  It was during this point in the history of music that dance music became popular. It contained strong rhythm and was usually played at social gatherings. It was during the Baroque
Era of the history of music that the instruments became as important that the vocals. The use of organs grew during this time and became associated with church music. Harpsichords also became popular during the Baroque Era and were the instrument often used when playing solo. For the eschewing and avoiding of errors and heresies, which of late have risen, grown, and much increased within this realm, for that the ordinaries have wanted authority to proceed against those that were infected therewith: be it therefore ordained and enacted by authority of this present Parliament, that the statute made in the fifth year of the reign of King Richard II, concerning the arresting and apprehension of erroneous and heretical preachers, and one other statute made in the second year of the reign of King Henry IV, concerning the repressing of heresies and punishment of heretics, and also one other statute made in the second year of the reign of King Henry V, concerning the suppression of heresy
and Lollardy, and every article, branch, and sentence contained in the same three several Acts, and every of them, shall from the twentieth day of January next coming be revived, and be in full force, strength, and effect to all intents, constructions, and purposes for ever. The music took on a greater social awareness; it was not just about dancing and smooching anymore, but took on themes of social justice. The music itself broadened past the guitar-bass-drum format; while some bands had used saxophones and keyboards before, now acts like the Beatles (and others following their lead) experimented with wind sections, string sections, and full orchestration. are credited with being the first band to dispense with band uniforms. Band members now simply wore whatever
clothes they wished. Mozarabic chant Byzantine Chant Beneventan chant Ambrosian chant Gregorian chant Medieval music sheet music Dodecachordon Heinrich Glarean plainsong Gregorian chant File:Liber Usualis 0340b.mid Guido d'Arezzo Petrus de Cruce notational system Gregorian chant of the [] edit Sacred monophony [] edit Music of India is an ancient form of music therapy where monophonic melodies called ragas are played to activate "" (Chi energy wheels) to attain realization on the yogic path. (provided by : snapshots of Wikipedia from wikipedia.org) Fixed Reference (also known by his Latin name, ( - ) was one of the most influential
of the early Italian , a reviver of who was in touch with every major academic thinker and writer of his day. Marsilio Ficino Time you got around to sponsoring a child Marsilio FicinoMarsilius Ficinus 1433 1499 humanist philosophers Renaissance Neoplatonism Musical instrument A musical instrument is a device that has been constructed or modified with the purpose of making music. In principle, anything that somehow produces sound can serve as a musical instrument, but the expression is reserved generally to items that have that Musical film A musical film belongs to a film genre that features songs, sung by the actors, interwoven into the narrative. The songs are usually used to advance the plot or develop the film's
characters.