The age of an annuitant is the age
reached at the
nearest birthday when the contract is made, and rates are the same for men and women. Deferred annuity is a type of long-term retirement account under which individual can grow his/her assets and this annuity provides a stream of income once the annuitant retires. Primary purpose  accumulation or pay-out (deferred or immediate) Nature of pay-out commitment  fixed period, fixed amount, or lifetime Tax status  qualified or nonqualified Premium payment arrangement  single premium or flexible premium For more info on annuities, or call an Annuity Specialist at , 1-888-261-6237 click here AnnuityForLife.com     Instead of asking, "Why should we all invest in annuities?" one should be asking "Why not?" Here are some valuable answers. Annuities are of many different kinds and there is one that suits every investor. So whether you
want immediate returns or want to defer payment from your investment, annuities provide the ideal
solution.
In such instances, some financial planners may recommend
more aggressive investments as part of your accumulation strategy, althoughrisk should never be a substitute for intelligent long term planning. So How Safe Are Insurance Companies? As you probably already know, annuity products come from insurance companies, who can be evaluated through a number of factors relating to their reputation, strength, reserves and historical performance. For
more information on
the best annuity rates, and to see what’s on offer from over 30 insurance companies and 300 annuity programs, or call at the toll-free number 1-800-998-4056. Annuity experts at the can advise on the complicated contracts, calculate and compare returns from various annuity offers, advice you on the best choice for you, and help grow your savings. Their main disadvantages,
IRS and insurance company penalty fees, only materialize if you withdraw prematurely. Beware of these disadvantages: — Income withdrawals before the age of 59.5 are charged a 10% tax penalty by the IRS.10% IRS Penalty — Growth is tax-deferred, but eventually income is taxed an ordinary income tax rates, not capital gains.Not Considered a Capital Gain .Standard & Poors, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., provides independent financial information, analytical services, and credit ratings to the worlds financial markets.  For more information on Standard & Poors, visit www.standardandpoors.com .For more
information on Fitch,
visit www.fitchratings.com .For more information on
Moodys, visit www.moodys.com   Last updated February 17, 2009. In the case of an annuity with a spread of 3%, if the index gained 9%, the return credited to the annuity would be 6% (9% - 3% = 6%).Margin/Spread/Administrative Fee. Another feature that can have a dramatic impact on an equity-indexed annuitys return is its indexing method (or how the amount of change in the relevant index is determined). We use CD like products from only top rated companies that you know and trust. Because these products are simple that makes it very easy to comparison shop. We simply scan the entire marketplace for the very best rate and present all of those rates to you in a concise format. Many people long satisfied with the security and minimum growth of CDs and savings plans have found tremendous long term advantages within fixed, immediate
and equity
indexed
annuities. The tax deferred benefits, combined with security of principal and guarantee of interest rates, allows you to effectively plan and know what assets will be waiting when you need them. The Internet is the information highway of the contemporary world and allows investors to receive the annuity quotes from different companies while sitting in the sanctity of their homes and offices. A comparative analysis of the annuity quotes will also be easily found on the web. It would be good to first list out what you expect of the investment before you select a certain type of annuity. This article will give you a bird eye view of the various annuities available to you, along with
their purchase options, payment options, and benefits. When purchasing your annuity, will you choose a single versus flexible-payment annuity? Do you want a fixed rate of interest, or variable? Do you want a deferred or immediate annuity, and how does each of these pay out? Financial security may be adequate, but capacity to meet policyholder obligations, particularly with respect to long-term or "long-tail" policies, is vulnerable to adverse economic and underwriting conditions. B Vulnerable financial security. Currently able to meet policyholder obligations, but capacity to meet policyholder obligations is particularly vulnerable to adverse
economic and
underwriting conditions. CCC Extremely vulnerable financial security. The main challenge while considering various annuity plans and deciding the most suitable one for you is to identify the benefits you need most and then compare the annuities that give you those benefits along with a good interest rate. For more information on how to use annuities for saving and insuring steady income during those retirement years, or call a t the toll-free number 1-800-998-4056. The low-water-mark method uses the lowest of the indices on each of the policy anniversaries before maturity as the
level of the index at issue. This method tends to lessen the risk of market decline. 5. The annual reset, or cliquet or ratchet, method is among the most complicated. The increase in the index is calculated each policy year by comparing the indices on the beginning and ending anniversaries. For friendly annuity advice and an evaluation of how an annuity might improve your wealth creation and preservation strategy, contact us today for a free no-obligation consultation or click to go directly to our for quotes on more than 475 different annuities Byrd Financial Group Get-A-Quote page . Here are a few of the fine companies represented by Annuity-Strategies.com: There are many ways to save and invest one’s money and it is important to select an investment option that satisfies the financial requirements of the investor.
While some investors may wish to invest their money for a long time, others may want to start receiving income from it as soon as possible. The key is that once you start these payments they must continue for five years or until you reach 59 1/2, whichever takes longer. If you start at age 58 you must continue until you are 63 (minimum 5 years). Becomes disabled (as defined in section 72(m)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code) Through a loan (some investment companies allow this, some do not) A title that is free of liens or legal questions as to ownership of the property Closing The occasion where a sale is finalized; the buyer signs the mortgage, and closing costs are paid. Also called "settlement." Closing Costs Expenses (over and above the price of the property) incurred by buyers and sellers in transferring ownership
of a property. Legal Disclaimer and Terms of Use - Annuity Planners THE MATERIALS AND INFORMATION IN THIS SITE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. The content provided by this web site and its links are for informational purposes only and is in no way intended to render medical advice or professional services, or to be a substitute for qualified professional consultation. Expert advice from our annuity specialists at can help you understand more and eventually plan a good annuity scheme. Hence do not hesitate to write to us or call us in case you are stuck with a
huge
load or tables of jargon. We can sure make annuities simple for you. Annuities are great retirement saving tools that help old age people to live a happy, relaxed and financially secured life. Annuity  Money for Your Future What are your retirement plans? How much consideration you have given to your retirement life? How sure are you that you will have sufficient income for your coming life? Have you invested a substantial part of your income in annuities? This design is more likely than others to give you access to index-linked interest before the term ends. Your annuity's participation rate may change each year and generally will be lower than that of other indexing methods. Also, an annual reset design may use a cap or averaging to limit the total amount of interest you might earn each year. These contracts generally base growth on an equity index such as Standard & Poors 500 Composite Stock Price Index.  Equity indexed annuities are not normally subject to loss of principal
like variable annuities, however account growth is often limited to a percentage (%) of the growth of the equity index on which it is based, and may also contain caps on the maximum annual growth. Their
rates can also
be fixed for a limited
period, and then drop say, after the first year. If you don't like the new rates and want to withdraw your money early, heavy surrender charges could kick in and cut into your returns. Plus, if you decide to opt for fixed lifetime payments, those payments will not rise to keep pace with inflation. (Note: insurance companies say you have no right to rely on what an agent tells you even if the agent doesn’t tell the truth. They’ll tell you that you must READ THE POLICY, but you don’t get the policy until weeks after you already GAVE YOUR MONEY to them. It’s a catch 22 and you’re the
victim. Choices of how interest is calculated and which index is used. Single or Flexible Premiums. Systematic Withdrawals of interest or amounts to satisfy IRS minimum distributions available immediately.** 10% penalty-free withdrawals starting in year 2. Lifetime Income Benefit.+ Additional liquidity if you are confined to a nursing home or diagnosed with a terminal illness (available by state approval). The basics of annuities By Insure.com Dissecting how annuities work, whether you should buy one, and what kind to buy is no easy task. Here's how you can cut through the complexity of annuities to determine whether they are the right long-term product for you. In a nutshell Annuities glossary The phase in which you pay into your annuity. Like 401k and IRAs, the annuity takes advantage of special legislation passed by Congress that encourages individuals to save more money for their retirement. The advantage is that most annuities offer
tax deferred accumulation, meaning that your retirement savings can grow at a faster rate because taxes are not paid yearly like they are with a CD. How surrender charges may limit withdrawal rights for a period of years after the annuity is purchased, and why the annuity should not be purchased if the consumer will need the cash during this period. How the annuity payments may be made, and what can happen upon the death of the annuitant. So if the market returns are a big draw for you, make sure you know exactly what you're getting.They don't always match a indexes' full return:entire Then there are surrender charges. In some indexed annuities,
surrender
charges can run as high as 20% and last for 15 or more years. So you may not have access to all of your money without paying steep penalty charges for a long, long time.Fees: Annuity | About Us Immediate Annuity Financial planning is the key to live a self-sufficient life after retirement or any other circumstances, which may lead to financial instability. If you have already invested in options like fixed and variable annuities, it is definitely a wise act
from your side. However, if you have still not
followed the rules of acting faster in
life, you may still
take
advantage of
option to weed out financial difficulties from your life. Offering a variety of interest rates and guarantee periods, market value adjusted annuities allow you to divide your funds over several different contract periods, giving you more control over your money. During each annuity's contract period, you may choose to take cash from your policy when prevailing interest rates are favorable for a withdrawal. With an Indexed , your
return is tied to the
increase in one of
several stock market indexes, such as the S&P 500. However, if the stock market goes down, you do not lose any of your money. In fact, most Indexed Annuity contracts will even GUARANTEE you a minimum annual return (typically 1-3%), even if the index you invested in goes down the entire time you are invested. However, unlike Social Security and many pension plans, annuities allow you elect a beneficiary to receive your payments if you pass away prematurely. Annuities work very much like a savings account insofar as they earn interest, but do not lose value based on equity market conditions. In non-qualified annuities, there are no restrictions on the amount you may deposit, but your deposits are not tax deductible like a traditional retirement account. You can have a neutral perspective of the comparison of different forms of
annuities, their rates and returns, and their benefits and
risks at . Annuities’ comparison can be a good guideline for deciding the right type of annuity, however, to decide which annuity, you need to do your homework well and calculate and compare the returns from each. Why Invest in an Annuity? Imagine retiring from your hectic work routine with a regular source of income. Imagine your savings working as hard as you do to ensure that you have a
nest egg for your
retirement. Imagine an investment that helps your savings compound. Annuities are an ideal investment plan... Why Invest in Annuities? Contact Us Equity Indexed Annuity A fixed indexed annuity has attributes of both a traditional fixed and a variable annuity account. Technically, this annuity is categorized as a fixed annuity account by insurance regulators. Investors never own stocks,
bonds, mutual funds or any other variable instrument in an indexed account. The most important thing to know is the interest rate it is paying. One should keep in mind that annuities typically follow the direction of longer term interest rates. Anyone in the market to buy an annuity during the past year and has been waiting for interest rates to move up, has generally been disappointed. Next, it is vital to decide about payment option. You can choose any settlement option such as annutization option, systematic withdrawal option etc whichever suits you best but once chosen, it cannot be changed. Annuitants should give full consideration to charges such as surrender charges or other fees, related to each and every type of annuity. Unfortunately,
many investors are suffering through similar pains to those experienced during the market slide from 1999 to 2003.Most (not all) brokerage accounts regained their losses from that period of time, but this recent downturn has quickly undone that progress.But, it is business as usual from the brokers  telling clients to wait it out.Yet, these same brokerage houses are busy selling stocks, trying to lock in profits while their individual clients absorb the losses.For many years the brokerage industry has shunned the safety of fixed annuity accounts while investor portfolios decline. First year returns have been even higher in indexed accounts,
often approaching 15-20%
during bull market cycles. Example $100,000 premium plus 7.5%* bonus equals $107,500 $107,500 credited 3.00%* (guaranteed interest in the fixed sub account) equals $110,725.00 The guaranteed first year yield would be 10.73%* in this annuity! The following year the money could be invested in the equity index sub account. Immediate annuity provides rates according to which a regular monthly
payment to the annuitant is made after the investment or deposit money to the insurance company has been made. The rates or rate of interest provided in an immediate annuity plan differ from deferred annuity rates. The main reason behind this is that the immediate annuity rates are influenced by various factors like the choice of payments; the age of the annuitant etc. Early withdrawals will reduce the death benefit and cash surrender value. Annuities are issued by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.S.) (Wellesley Hills, MA) in all states except New York. In New York, the contracts are issued by Sun Life Insurance and Annuity Company of New York (New York, NY). Variable annuity products are distributed through Sun Life Financial Distributors, Inc. They are designed to provide a higher rate of return over traditional CD and savings plan products, and come with many options you can customize depending on your retirement objectives and financial plan. The variable annuity however is a form of securities, directly linked to the stock market in terms of growth potential and
investment risk. Once you’ve decided that a particular type of fits into your retirement plans, it’s a good idea to compare similar offerings from several companies and to research the companies
themselves.
The reason it’s important to evaluate annuity providers — especially if you’re considering a fixed annuity, a fixed account within a variable annuity, annuitization, or an immediate annuity — is that you’re dependent on the company to uphold to its part of the contract. With our more than 20 years of experience you can be certain you are dealing with the nation's top annuity agent. For more information about our annuity rates services call us toll-free at 866-866-1999. For expert help with your call toll-free 866-866-1999 © Copyright 2004 - 2009 Total Return annuity Enter your
state, age, and dollar amount and click to calculate. Have you ever wished that there was a single web site where you could find product
information for the more than 320 Indexed Annuity products available today? Have you been challenged to find ONE site that collectively reports on the participation rates, caps, and spreads for every Indexed Annuity available for sale today? Have you ever wished there was a service that would create reports, and appropriately benchmark the Indexed Annuities on the market to reduce time spent
on rate committee preparation?
If you have decided
that participating in the TSA Program is for you, you should contact your selected TSA carrier to begin the enrollment process.  The carrier must provide a calculation for you in order to determine the annual maximum amount that you can contribute as allowed by law.  You should also contact the Benefits Office to tell them how much you want to contribute and when you want to start.  They
can provide you with information regarding those companies that have been authorized to sell TSA products through the University. A more flexible payback option is the Systematic Withdrawals system, which allows you to withdraw a fixed percentage of the value of your annuity or a fixed amount every month. If you want to, you can discontinue the monthly payment system and withdraw the remaining balance in your annuity account at any time.