Do you find yourself
wishing you could extend the growing season/b> As raised beds are higher than the surrounding garden, they warm up more quickly in the spring and stay warm well into the autumn effectively making the growing season longer - a real bonus in cooler regions. A well designed raised bed is narrow enough
to allow you to work from the sides without standing on the soil. This reduces the problems of soil compaction and means that you can plant more intensively resulting in higher yields. Recycled Plastic
Raised Bed Kits [OR-240A] $89.99 The raised bed gardening trend is blooming all over America. It's the modern way to grow beautiful flowers, raise fresh vegetables, extend your growing season, use less space, water, fertilizer and improve soil conditions. You can join this back-to-nature trend with a contemporary twist with this Recycled Plastic Raised Bed Garden Kit. For the maximum impact create raised beds on different levels and use a mixture of permanent and seasonal planting. Shade is not such a problem as in the vegetable garden - there are plenty of attractive, shade loving plants you can grow. (If you want to grow vegetables take a look at the design tips and sample
plans for the ). raised bed vegetable garden Include some evergreens with a sculptural
form - Tree Ivies (),
Japanese Aralias (), and
Cabbage Palms () are all good for this purpose.x Fatshedera lizeiFatsia japonicaCordyline australis Place aromatic and scented plants near benches or other seating areas. Use a limited palette of foliage and flower colours to create atmosphere. If you use your garden in the evening, plant white or light coloured plants as these become almost luminescent as daylight fades. Night scented stocks and tobacco plants also release their heady perfume at
this time. Easier to weed and harvest Poultry wire or hardware cloth may be added to bottom of the bed to discourage burrowing rodents Extremely durable and maintenance free Distinctive design with 4 contemporary colors Environmentally friendly - preserves trees and reduces landfill waste Keep toxic wood preservatives out of your vegetable garden Solid recycled lumber contains colorants and UV inibitors throughout Made from HDPE recycled milk jugs Unaffected by saltwater, rot, insects or weather Nails and screws eventually loosen as wood ages; these Cedar Raised Bed Garden kits assemble with rust-free metal pins set securely through the ends of each board. So even after years and years of exposure, these beds won't fall apart. Yet they can easily be disassembled by hand if needed for moving or storage. In addition to being strong and easy to assemble, the pin design allows your raised bed garden to be a very flexible plant production facility. The cold frame is made from strong and heat retaining polycarbonate and has been designed with three sliding roof panels to give
you easy access and ventilation. The long lasting aluminium frame simply screws on top of your raised bed. (You'll need a drill to fix the frame in place and self tapping screws.) Or to create a huge cloche simply cover the frame with clear polythene or garden fleece. During the summer months you can cover the hoops with netting to protect your crops from butterflies (so caterpillar damage) or birds. These strong hoops provide you with
loads of possibilities for making even greater use of your Timber
Grow Beds. Supplied as a pack of two hoops These Raised Garden Planters are intended to make your life a lot easier. Organize your space to make finding tools a cinch. Keep your belongings safe and secure. No more messes, lost items or sore knees. Our Potting Benches are extremely weather resistant, in either Western Red or White Cedar Wood that will last throughout wear and weather. Optional oil-stain finish will prolong color of the natural wood. Copper Cap Raised Bed, 3' x 6' -Item
#33-427$215.00      Qty. E-mail to a Friend According to some gardeners, the ideal raised bed is a trim rectangle, attractive and easy to tend. Our Vermont-built raised beds are made of durable, rot-resistant red cedar. Copper corner caps further inhibit rot, and give the whole bed a handsome, finished look. We offer a 3' x 3' size to use in smaller areas or in combination with the larger 3' x 6' bed. Purchase this Special Offer pack of 10 metres & save 47% off the usual sales price. Simply lay directly over the subjects to be protected as soon as sowing or planting is completed. Water & air permeable your plants remain naturally watered & ventilated but soil temperatures & humidity levels are
increased accelerating growth. Protects plants from adverse weather conditions & damage from insects, birds etc. Washable, tear resistant & ultra-violet light stabilised it will last for several seasons. But they don't just look pretty. They're providing those trees with nourishment and preserving moisture. Follow the example of mother nature, and you'll take your vegetable patch to a whole new level with a self-sustaining garden that's strong and healthy. Why Use It? It's especially crucial to use it on your "thirsty" plants like squash and potatoes. Also, by using material that is plant-derived, you'll be returning nutrients to your soil. Our are built to resist warping from winter frost and won rot with exposure
to rain and moisture the way wood will. The coloring is designed to eathernaturally with exposure to the elements and won breakdown, dry out or become brittle. Frame It All raised vegetable gardens are designed to last.Frame It All is Durable This 4'x4'x10" high WallRock Raised Bed Kit makes it easy to install a low-maintenance and extremely attractive garden that looks just like a real granite rock wall raised bed, but is much easier and less costly to build. Kit Includes: 4 sections of straight wall 48"x 10"x 6" 4 spikes 18" long to make a 4'x4' raised bed. Unique interlocking fit assembles in 10 minutes! Endless layout possibilities; squares, rectangles, L, T, E shapes, and more Great as a raised garden bed,
retaining
wall, water garden, sand box; unlimited uses Hollow walls insulate soil & plants for extended growing season Wall will not sag or bow; strong enough to sit or stand on Rugged, long lasting high density polyethylene UV resistant - will not
chip, crack, fade or peel Wall height: 10" (We also offer 20" kits if you would like to build taller raised beds.) You can continue to add extension kits to your raised bed to make longer and longer growing beds as you require  there is no maximum length. This kit includes: Two Raised Bed Panels  38 (9.5cm) long Steel U Brace  this enables you to support the place where
the raised bed panels join, so that they remain strong and upright when the bed is filled with compost Raised beds greatly improves soil conditions with reduced soil compaction and plants can be spaced closer together. This increases productivity per sq. ft. • Manufactured from our 36 mil, heavy-duty pond liner fabric. • 2' ground posts are 17 gauge, 1.05 OD hot-dipped galvanized steel and are located every 5 linear feet. •
Can easily be adjusted to accommodate different widths or lengths. We can also help you maintain your vegetable garden, plants and flowers with high quality garden tools, foggers, ground cover and seed mats. Save money on costly store-bought chemical fertilizers, while improving plant growth and quality with our composters. Dramatically increase your vegetable, herb and flower production with our raised bed kits, mini cold frames and accessories! Panels are made from 1 1/8 (3cm) thick treated timber, planed with rounded edges and with a guaranteed life of 10 years The corners of the grow
bed are securely joined using galvanised steel brackets (these also provide an anchor point for the optional support frame) Size: 311 x 41 x 5 deep (120cm x 126cm x 15cm) Compost capacity 200 litres Save money
by ordering Two Timber Grow Beds Just 75.00 Saving 4.90SPECIAL OFFER Protect Your Crops from Pests with Pop-Up Nets Pest Control Pop-Up Nets Pop-Up Net, Large -Item #37-447$44.95      Qty. Pop-Up Net, Small -Item #37-446$24.95      Qty. E-mail to a Friend No more free salad bar for rabbits and deer! These self-supporting pop-up pest control nets will keep lettuce, carrots, broccoli and more safe until harvest. These netting enclosures with 1/4" mesh can be used directly in the garden, or set snugly over our . Next spread a layer of coarse straw, followed by nitrogen-rich pea straw. Sprinkle on some Yates Blood & Bone, Dynamic Lifter
Organic plant food and some garden lime. Water well If you have room, you can add more similar layers. Tip a few circles of rich, home-made compost and some Black Magic Seed Raising Mix on top of the soil. > Sandboxes Home Sandboxes The kids wait impatiently as I release the tarp tabs and remove the green nylon cover from the sturdy hexagonal sandbox. The beach ball which had lifted the cover above the sand and created a dome effect, had by consequence also allowed the air trapped inside to warm up the surface of the sand. In an instant they were in kid heaven. There is nothing like clean and tidy sandboxes to keep children of all ages safely occupied for hours and hours, and no skill is required to assemble this wonderful creation with Frame it All's sandboxes and complete sandbox kits! Can even be used for a sand
box for the kids or visiting grandchildren. Non-toxic natural cedar wood endures the weather for years, gradually turning silvery gray and blending into the landscape. Rectanglular shaped planting bed available in 3 lengths. Also available with . 3'W. x 6'L. x 16"H. 3'W. x 8'L. x 16"H. 3'W. x 10'L. And for just 56.00 it's a cheap way to create a beautiful display of flowers or to create a self contained raised bed anywhere in your garden. Mini Raised Bed - made from just four panels of 100% recycled material to create a strong raised bed in seconds. 115 litre capacity. Built size: 3'2" (97cm) x 1'8" (51cm) x 10" (26cm) deep. UL and CUL listed : H - 6.5" W - 12.25"Size Dimensions : YesBulbs Included : Metal used features recycled content and is itself recyclableEnlightened Benefit : BronzeFinish : (2) 60 Watt BulbsQuantity/Types of Bulbs : 60 Watt MaxRecommended Wattage : Manufacturer provides item warranty against material defects
and workmanshipWarranty Other
Products in this Collection Tolouse Outdoor Pendant Now you can enjoy all the advantages of raised bed gardening, plus the added benefit of watering weekly instead of daily. This stylish planter boasts two 4-gallon reservoirs that keep plants lush and green even in a drought. Its crisp lines and realistic wood grain look elegant on the patio, but it's tough enough to
use in the garden, because it's made of crack-proof,
fade-proof polypropylene. April Sandors has been doing relief work at our clinic since 2002. Beginning in 2006 we are happy to have her now working 2-3
days a week. She is a 1988 graduate of the College of Veterinary Medicine at UC Davis. She attended California State University at Sacramento (CSUS) for her undergraduate degree.  Dr. Sandors and her husband, Donald, have been married since 1986. " is getting a long overdue make-over (thanks in part to the recent spell of bad winter weather in the UK)! Web Site Makeover Enjoy Your Garden All the information is still available but some pages will appear in the old layout until the transition is completed - so please bear with us.      Qty. Grow Bed, 3' x 6' -Item #37-534$89.95      Qty. Mini Grow Bed, 18" x 3' -Item #37-501$39.95      Qty. E-mail to a Friend A Grow Bed is the most efficient square yard of garden you'll ever tend. The recycled black plastic sides of this raised garden bed absorb heat to warm soil early in the season, then help retain moisture all summer long. No digging, no weeding required; just lots of delicious homegrown food! Think of all the benefits you will receive! 12"H Commercial Fabric Raised Beds Commercial Raised Beds are ideal for use inside high tunnels and greenhouses or in the field. The raised bed is formed from our 36 mil pond liner material; it is an inert material that neither leeches chemicals into the ground nor absorbs them from its surroundings. The Commercial
Raised Bed is easily adjusted because the material has a great deal of flexibility — you determine what width and length (and even shape) will suit you based by how you place the ground posts. • 44.5"L x 2" x 6"(1.5" x 5.5") composite lumber is constructed with 20% wood fiber and has two inner supports that make it stronger, stiffer and lighter than other solid plastic lumbers. Extremely durable, this lumber will not rot, crack, split or splinter as real wood does. Maintenance free, this composite lumber will maintain its color and beauty for years. Stake joints are 48" center to center.No more unnecessary bending. If not needed, simply stake the pins into the ground to set flush with the top of the planter. - Raised beds can be put together in minutes without tools, and come apart just as easily. - No
brackets, nails, or screws
to loosen with natural
swelling and shrinking of wood. - Naturally rot-resistant cedar wood lasts up to thirty years or longer, even when left unfinished. - Flexible piping (not included) over corner pins provides support for shade cloth or greenhouse covering. raised
bed gardening raised bed
garden design Tips and Ideas for Your Own Raised Bed Vegetable Garden On the other hand, if you have a small garden with no room for a separate vegetable plot, you can create a more interesting and ornamental design by combining
rectangles and squares with other shapes such as circles or octagons. (For some ideas on layouts see the sample ). raised bed garden plans for the ornamental garden Dual-action watering system keeps plant roots just moist enough Water gauge tells you when to refill Includes easy-fill funnel with cover and
two styles of finials Crips lines and realistic wood grain with rugged durability Choice of white, green or brown Self-Watering Raised Bed, Green -Item #34-324$169.00      Qty. Self-Watering Raised Bed, Brown -Item #34-325$169.00 This category has a great selection of ground mulch cover, tree rings, landscape edging, aerating fountains, picnic tables and benches. Recycled rubber mulch looks exactly like organic mulch and is a non-toxic, environmentally safe and cost effective
alternative to wood mulch. Treat yourself to a new aerating fountain. They will not only brighten up your backyard, but will add to the peace and serenity.