Located in Harbor Springs
opposite Lake Michigan on the famous Tunnel of Trees - a popular destination for bicyclists. You're close to such vacation spots as Petoskey, Charlevoix, Cross Village, The Inland Water Way and The Straits of Mackinaw.   Atop this 130' bluff,  witness panoramic views that will allow you to see all the way to Charlevoix and on
some days even Beaver Island!  Enjoy
these views from the home as well as from the meandering bluffside staircase with secluded sun deck that leads to  on Lake Michigan.  150' of very private sandy frontage  NLP also offers principles and techniques that can help you take charge of your emotional state. Perhaps you know people who some days are happy and other days are in less than resourceful states and don't seem to have any control over this. Or
perhaps you have had to go for an interview and find yourself dreading the interview to such an extent that you are such a bundle of nerves when you get there that you don't do
your best in the interview. NLP offers a range of different techniques to manage your emotions and internal thought processes so that you can achieve the results you want rather than your results being determined by un resourceful states that you might have found yourself in. Click to
register for the next upcoming NLP
Training here   Have you ever watched someone do something and thought to yourself 'I wish I could do that - how do they do that so well?'  NLP teaches you how the successful people operate, so you can use the strategies they use to be successful too! I have found NLP to be incredible effective for myself, and my clients.  As a result, I decided to offer programs to train people how to use NLP personally and professionally. Click to register for the next upcoming here NLP Training that I am offering People are capable of incredible things, however they often do not
achieve their full potential. Some people put this down to what they might call talent, or luck, however a fundamental principle of Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP) is that we can all achieve similar results through modeling their thinking and physiology. Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) offers a range of different techniques and tools that can help you model
successful people and achieve
excellent results more quickly. Come prepared to write your grant proposal.  Participants should have a funding source identified prior to class so all class time and writing are focused on the interests, requirements, and instructions provided by the funding source.  Prerequisite: Grant Proposals Overview course or prior grant writing experience. Mondays, March 23-April 6, 7-9:30 p.m., $145 Register after March 16 - $155 How to Start a Not-for-Profit Organization Creating a not for profit organization can be a daunting process, but this course will help you learn the
step by step process.  You will be introduced to the forms and applications necessary to start your new organization.  Monday & Wednesday, April 13 & 15, 7:00-9:30 p.m., $70 Register after April 2 - $80 Public Relations – A Campaign Need a crash course in the basics of running a Public Relations campaign?  Spend two
intense, fast-paced class periods
with an Ebony Magazine PR professional learning the process. Tuesdays, March 24-April 14 6:30-8:30 p.m., $119 Register after March 16 - $129 Event Planning Planning a conference, gala, annual meeting, retreat, or reunion does not have to be a nightmare if you do your homework and are organized.  This course offers tips on how to lay the groundwork for a major event, while spicing it up with a theme, motif, and attention to detail.  How to manage all the details is simplified with time lines, lists of responsibilities, staffing, budgets, marketing, and how to pull it all
together for the day of the event.
Mondays, March 2-23, 7:00-9:00 p.m., $95 Register after February 19 - $105 Grant Proposal Overview Volunteers or employees of non-profit agencies, local government, and educational institutions will find this class helpful.  Information presented includes research, funding sources,
development, and proposal types.  This is the prerequisite for taking Grant Writing Workshop.      Mondays &
Wednesdays, March 2-11, First week:
 7:00-9:30 p.m., Second week:  6:00-8:30 p.m., $115, Register after February 19 - $125    (For more information on times and fees, visit the web site.) Amtrak In 1880, Logan Drake purchased 20-22 acres of sand dunes
from the Native Americans. Later
he joined up with Louis Wallace and formed the Silver Beach Amusement Company. A slide was built in the water for children; a moving stairway "the people mover" was installed on the bluff costing 1 cent to ride. Roller coasters, a carousel, outdoor roller skating rink and dance pavilion were added.
Silver Beach is still a community get-together for guests and residents. Currently a group of citizens are trying to bring back the "magic" of the Silver Beach Amusement Park, by purchasing the original carousel, with the intent of making it a working
exhibit in downtown St. Joseph. For
more information, visit the .)
Silver Beach Carousel Society's website Many people fondly remember the days of the Shadowland Ballroom that was a part of the Amusement Park. Recently, Berrien County constructed the Shadowland Pavilion to honor the old Shadowland Ballroom and provide a place on the beach for more entertainment and fun. During summer months visitors may hear a variety of concerts here. This past summer
the performed during
festivals and the 4th of July to sell out crowds. Stay on top of the latest happenings by signing up to receive email news, announcements, etc... Email: Can't find what you are looking for? Type in a
keyword and click search. Tour of St.
Joseph, Michigan Throughout the 1800's, people continued to move into the St. Joseph area. The first settlers arrived to the area and built their homes
east of the river in 1834. The land they had found soon developed into excellent farmland. In fact, beautiful countryside's still surround St. Joseph. Our
Welcome Movie Michigan Vacations Planner Home to
sparkling streams, bays and lakes of clean blue water, green forests, woodland trails, abundant
wildlife, soaring limestone cliffs, rolling farm country, historic sites, ghost towns, fine dining, , and accommodations to fit any taste or budget. We proudly boast the most coast, the largest downtown, a , and the gateway to the Hiawatha National forest. Centrally located in the heart of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula we are the natural stop for travelers to or from Mackinac Island,
St. Ignace, Marquette, and if you
are traveling by boat from Door County or
Sturgeon Bay Wisconsin our marinas are ready to welcome you! challenging golf courses State Fair The Bays de Noc boast 211 miles of varied shoreline complete with . . . the most of any county in the continental U.S.A. With an almost non-existent crime rate, Delta County and the Bays de Noc are the perfect choice for any type of traveler. beautiful white sand beaches Download the interactive flash version of the (15.8
MB) and double click "travelguide2008.exe" to enjoy the show! Michigan Travel Guide Or order a copy of it in CD or magazine form by calling us (1-800-533-4FUN or 1-906-789-7862) or by filling out the form below. You can fill out this form to contact us to request any information. Unless otherwise noted you will receive the visitors guide on an interactive CD ROM Contact Information: The
traditional concepts will be mentioned, but deferred giving will be the focus of this course.  These methods include Pay on Death, Life
insurance,
retirement benefits, foundations, tax
exempt trusts, charitable remainder trust,
charitable lead trust, gift annuity, and pooled income funds.  The last session will assist you in setting up your own charitable organization to serve your purpose.  Groups seeking charitable contributions and those giving contributions will benefit from this course.  Bring all your questions for our experienced expert. It is the largest non-citrus fruit-growing region in the nation. Each spring, since 1906 the celebrates the beginning of the
growing season. Blossomtime Festival Ironically, in 1839 peach trees were introduced to the area and peach production became a major economic activity. It was in 1870 that St. Joseph finally acquired a rail service through the Chicago and Michigan
Lakeshore Railway. By 1872 it had developed to the extent that Berrien County could ship 140,000 bushels of peaches each year. Mondays, April 6 & 13, 7-9 p.m., $85 Register
after March 26- $95 Resumes and Interviewing Does your resume need a makeover? Want to be prepared for your next job interview? Learn effective techniques and verbiage to include in various types of resumes. Participate in mock job interviews and networking sessions to strengthen your chances of being hired for the job.
Mondays, February 16 & 23 7-9 p.m., $39 Ski Lodging near Nub's Nob and Boyne Highlands!   Cheaper with more amenities than a hotel!   This new home is complete with a Sandy Beach, Amazing Views, AC, Fireplace, Pool Table, a second TV for kids and 60's period themed video library.      We hope to be your Michigan Beach Vacation Destination! Ok, so the surfing's not as good as Oahu's North Shore but it is just as
beautiful!!   New for 2006, this cottage style home has 4 bedrooms, 2.5 baths and
a total living area 2,400 sq. ft. Plenty of room to spread out. This house is truly designed with the family in mind, with separate spaces for the grown-ups and kids alike.   Vintage Mod, Baby!It's, with a retro feel - sure to
evoke a flashback or two. The shag carpeting, custom ceramic tile, custom woodwork and a mix of retro antiques and custom furniture (not to mention a
few surprises), will help make this a vacation to
remember.luxurious