The tools provide energy and cost estimates, suitable for comparison purposes. They were not designed to
replace building load simulating software for heating and cooling systems design. Due to the dynamic nature of building heating and
cooling, actual energy use will vary depending on the application. These cost estimators are screening tools that estimates a product's lifetime energy cost savings at various efficiency levels. The tools
provide energy and cost estimates, suitable for comparison purposes only. They are not designed to replace building
load simulating software for heating and cooling systems design. Actual performance and costs will vary depending on
specific
operating conditions. Neither the U.S. Department of Energy, nor Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is
responsible for any adverse outcome associated with results generated by the cost estimators. Unitary Air Conditioner The menu-driven format is easy to learn and use. The tools quickly estimate life cycle
cost, simple payback,
return
on investment, and
savings-to-investment ratio. The estimators simulate operation under specific climate conditions at any of 237 U.S. locations selected by
the user. The tools reflect user-specified air conditioning requirements and building-use patterns. Estimator results are easily downloaded as graphic files for further analysis and presentation. The text contained within the
following links is taken from Chapter 1 of the book "Shrub-steppe: Balance and Change in a Semi-arid Terrestrial Ecosystem", W. H. Rickard, L. E. Rogers, B. E. Vaughan and S. F. Liebetrau (editors), Elsevier Science Publishing Company Inc., 52, Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, NR 10017. 1988. ISBN: 0-444-42990-5 (Vol.20) Consumer Products and Recreation Mobility Engineering Company() web site Pasco, WA Off-road vehicles for disabled usersService/Product: PNNL
staff, market assessment support, technology assistancePNNL's Contribution: Mundo Communications Network PNNL staff, equipment, technology assistancePNNL's Contribution: Electronics, Instrumentation, and Analytical Tools Technologies for
environmental safety and sustainable powerService/Product: PNNL staff, equipment, location in
Applied Process Engineering Laboratory, technology assistance, market analysis supportPNNL's Contribution: Kennewick, WA Anticounterfeiting technology for brand protection and quality controlService/Product: Business assistancePNNL's Contribution: Visual Editor Consultants() web site Richland, WA Visualization tool and training for the Monte Carlo
N-Particle
Code for the nuclear industryService/Product: PNNL staff, computer equipment rental, SBIR Alerting ServicePNNL's
Contribution: Environmental Protection and Remediation Current Environmental Solutions() web site Richland, WA Soil heating
technology for environmental remediationService/Product: PNNL staff, equity partner, location in the Applied Process
Engineering Laboratory, technology assistancePNNL's Contribution: Integrated Environmental
Technologies, LLC() web site Richland, WA Clean energy and plasma-based
waste processing systemsService/Product: PNNL staff, PNNL technology, technical assistancePNNL's Contribution: Information
Technology and Business Services ExpensePath Software Software system that automates purchasing card administrationService/Product:
PNNL staff, PNNL technology, technology assistancePNNL's Contribution: Contacts About the Cost Estimators The Unitary Air Conditioner (UAC) and the Room Air Conditioner (RAC) Cost Estimators compare high-efficiency rooftop and room air conditioners to standard equipment in terms of life cycle cost. These electronic tools provide an alternative to
complicated building simulation models, while offering more detail than simplified estimating
tools that are commonly available. While simplified tools are typically based on full-load efficiencies and full-load
equivalent operating hours, the estimators account for local climate and partial-load, as well as full-load efficiencies. The cost estimators assist
decision-making regarding the
purchase or replacement of
packaged rooftop air conditioning equipment and room air conditioners, by estimating a product´s lifetime energy cost savings at
various efficiency levels. Other key features include the following: The focus for the lessons on Fossils were targeted to the Science and Technology for Children (STC) unit Rocks & Minerals and the Full Option Science System (FOSS) unit Earth Materials. The lessons the teachers developed
were designed to take advantage of the opportunity to integrate reading and writing into science. The lessons were piloted by the teachers who participated in the ACTS program. Revisions were made and then piloted in classrooms across Washington State. The Fossils lessons will help your students understand that fossils provide evidence of plants, animals, and environments that existed long ago as well as understanding that plant and animal species change
over time. Since the first contact with European man, which occurred when the Lewis and Clark expedition traversed the region in 1805 and
1806, the North American shrub-steppe has undergone substantial and
irretrievable change. Unfortunately, of the few written records left by the early explorers, traders and trappers regarding
the original, pristine condition, those that have survived are sparse
indeed.
Since 1965, PNNL has received a total of 1,383 U.S. and foreign patents. Employment, Payroll and Taxes Staff employment at
the end of FY 2005 was 4,214. The gross payroll for the year was approximately $327.0 million. Employer-paid benefits totaled $82.3 million and various state and federal payroll taxes paid by the Laboratory amounted to more than
$25 million. $2.327 million
in business and occupation
taxes $649,000 in sales and use taxes $1.205 million in property and leasehold taxes. Purchased
Goods and Services PNNL purchased goods and services totaling more than $290 million. Economic Development PNNL's economic
development programs helped more than 50 technology businesses develop products, acquire new customers and contracts, get
access to funding sources and strategic partners, and secure specialized facilities and staff. The U.S. Department of Commerce selected PNNL as a of technology-based economic development among 300 federal laboratories. His responsibilities include supporting the development of technology
for the Protection, Interdiction
and Enforcement Technologies Product Line. Generally, these program areas are aligned with the following national security
missions: homeland security, combating terrorism, physical security, and law enforcement technology. Mr. Spradling also
serves as the client relationship manager for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Mr. Spradling obtained a master's degree in Mechanical Engineering from Ohio State University. The specific
components from the
oil
fraction, triglycerides and sterols, will be sold into existing markets and contribute significantly to the overall economic viability of the project. Corn Fiber Processing For more information about PNNL's bio-based product research, including details about our research capabilities and projects, visit our homepage.
Bio-Based Product Research Marine Research Operations , Point of Contact Dick Ecker At the Marine Sciences Laboratory on Sequim Bay in
Washington's Puget Sound, PNNL researchers help protect marine animals from pollutants and
restore
disturbed
habitats. PNNL's Sequim Marine Research Operations (MRO) facility is located on the scenic Olympic Peninsula of Washington State. The MRO is made up of the Marine Sciences Laboratory (MSL) and the Coastal
Security Institute (CSI). Principal contributions of the MRO include marine and freshwater ecotoxicology, trace-contaminant analysis
metals chemistry, organic
chemistry, environmental forensics, coastal and wetland restoration, fisheries studies, research in remediation technologies and biotechnology, remote sensing, sensor technologies, coastal engineering, oceanography, and fate-and-transport modeling in ocean and near-shore regions. Their study revealed that the core proteome comprised 74% of the larger genome sequence-based core genome predictions. The core proteome appears to be responsible for the basal
functions of bacteria; more than half is devoted to protein synthesis. Strikingly, about 7% of the core proteome is composed of proteins whose function is unknown. Because of the central nature of the core proteome, these proteins need further study. Proteins outside of the core proteome are responsible for the
lifestyle-specific differences of individual bacterial species. It is home to the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), a national center for energy and environmental research. A four-year and graduates degree campus of Washington State
University (WSU-TC)
is located in the Research District providing new technologies as well as a highly educated technical workforce. The Port of Benton, many of the world's largest engineering and construction firms and more than 80 innovative and globally-competitive private businesses are located here to be near customers and to leverage each other.   The physical place is a 1,600-acre mixed-use area located along the Columbia River in Richland, Washington composed of
approximately 3.4 million square feet of office, laboratory and light
manufacturing space. Key landowners include U. S. Department of Energy, Battelle/Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, the
Port of Benton and Washington State University Tri-Cities. Major private-sector property owners include Solaris
Group, a large real estate developer, Garlick Enterprises, Energy Northwest, and Western Sintering Corporation, a
locally-owned
manufacturing company. Today, those flows and the ground surface above them slope toward the Pasco Basin, where two large rivers, the Snake and the Yakima, enter the Columbia. The Hanford Site is
located at the low point of the Pasco Basin and is bounded to the southwest, west and north by large anticlinal ridges that extend eastward from the Cascade Mountain Range and terminate within the Pasco Basin. Hanford is bounded to the east by the Columbia River and the steep, imposing,
west-facing white bluffs of the Ringold Formation. Beyond, gently rising
basaltic lava flows lead into the Palouse country of eastern Washington. As founding director of the National
Center for Supercomputing Applications and the National Computational Science Alliance, Smarr has driven major
contributions
to the development of the national information infrastructure: the Internet, the Web, the emerging Grid, telepresence, and
scientific visualization. He was a member of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee for President Clinton and served until 2005 on the Advisory Committee to the Director of the National Institutes of Health and the NASA Advisory
Council. He was a member of the
California Governor's Task Force on Broadband in 2007. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and is a
Fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Is your technology business looking for a door to the Laboratory? The Economic Development Office at PNNL is here to help you start, grow, or revitalize your business. We help you tap into technology experts, facilities, and other resources available at the Laboratory...some at no cost to you. We've helped more than 400 companies in our region and 100 more nationwide. That portion of the ALE Reserve below about 366 meters
(1200 feet) and most of the remainder of the National Environmental Park was covered by
floods
associated with the glacial Lakes Missoula, Columbia, Spokane and similar ice-marginal lakes, and by glacial meltwaters (Brown 1970). The fauna
present during the late Pleistocene epoch indicate the presence of extensive grasslands. Mammoth, bison, horses, deer and other
unidentified
species were all present (Fry 1969). Effective precipitation apparently was greater than now, in order to support the vegetation that was grazed or browsed by these populations of large animals. The mammoths, bison and horses
are believed to have become
extinct
between 8,000 and 10,000 years
ago, disappearing shortly after the time of the last glacial lake Missoula floods (Brown 1970). Securing Our
Borders Mike Spradling On April 21, 2004 Mike Spradling gave a presentation on how protecting
america is a national priority, and how innovative technologies under development at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) are
helping in the mission to
make the country a safer place to live. Among the technologies that Mike Spradling showcased were the Acoustic
Inspection Device and Millimeter Wave Imager. The Acoustic Inspection
Device is a
hand-held, portable
technology that uses
ultrasound to detect and identify contraband in sealed containers. The Millimeter Wave Imager allows security guards at airports to "see" concealed weapons, including non-metallic threats such as plastic explosives. Mr. Spradling also highlighted the training presented to U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel at the Hazardous Materials Management
and Emergency Response Volpentest Training and Education Center (HAMMER).st At PNNL, you'll find innovative staff meeting
the nation's technical challenges... Find Jobs Create an and resume. applicant profile Use our job search agent to receive email notifications of new PNNL job openings. University Recruiting and Internships For graduate and post doc opportunities, visit our page. university recruiting For undergraduate internships and other educational programs, read about PNNL's Programs. Science and Engineering Education Working at PNNL Learn about our competitive . compensation and benefits View our online to learn more about
the lab, our core areas of research, our people and our facilities. video tour Website Contact: Job information is updated daily from database PNNL HR Webmaster Jobs at PNNL Conduct forums focusing for prevention and emergency
preparedness, response, and recovery. Provide information and expertise on new and emerging technologies, including
chem-bio detection, analysis, and forensics; radiological detection;
information
analytics; explosives detection; and situational awareness. Regional Homeland Security Summit A giant step toward a regional
partnership was taken on May 28, 2008, when key representatives from ten western states and the Territory of Guam embraced the idea of developing a concept to partner with U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) national laboratories—specifically the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and the Idaho National Laboratory. Vol. 4 No. 3Current Issue: Volume 4, Issue 3 November 17, 2008 Editor's Note Climate change could have dramatic consequences for Northwest
energy sources, agriculture, forestry, business interests, and the environment.   With 100 experts dedicated solely to atmospheric science and climate change, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is providing a better
understanding of this complex topic. Whether in the air, on mountains and glaciers; in computer laboratories, speaking to Congressional
committees, or collaborating with the worldwide science community, PNNL is bringing objective, valuable climate
insights to decision makers. This issue of Pacific Northwest Technology Today highlights
some of the exciting work PNNL is doing to help decision makers understand and respond to climate
issues.