The club has a Lapidary Shop, which includes rock and
trim saws,
several cabbing units and
polishers.     Club
members provide classes for
novices and, those more skilled, work at their own pace
on jewelry and other
lapidary
arts projects.The club encourages the public to stop in
and use its shop a couple of times at no charge. Enter their email and let them know about us! What Is the InterGem Show? SPRING 2009 SCHEDULE NOW AVAILABLE! Intergem Customers Please Note: Starting September 12, 2008, all customers, regardless of age, must either purchase a ticket for the show or have an approved free pass in order to enter the show. This change in
policy comes after feedback from Intergem customers and exhibitors alike. Then in 1973 they moved into the Tucson Community Center. They occupied the North Exhibit Hall first, then expanded into the Arena and upper Arena concourse. After the completion of the new facility in 1990, which is now called the Tucson Convention Center, the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM now occupies the Arena, Exhibition Halls A-B-C, Galleria and
Ballrooms. Live Oak, TX (San Antonio) Live Oak Civic Center, 8101 Pat Booker Rd. J&J Promotions: (505) 894-1293 The Bead Renaissance Show Oct 24&  25 2009 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Palmer Events Center 900 Barton Springs Rd Austin, TX Austin Gem & Mineral Society Show TBA Somervell County Expo Center Glen Rose, TX Fossilmania TBA Old Settler's Assn Hdqtrs Hwy 79, Round Rock, TX FossilFest Young or old, experienced or novice - these are 'must see' events. (visit for a full list of our Gem 'n' Bead Shows) www.gemnbead.co.uk * * * ********** * * * or Follow the for a list of exhibitors and directions to all Rock 'n' Gem Shows The Hop Farm (Nr Tonbridge) Our next show is at..... 24, 25 January 2009 We will supply a Form FS-32, Temporary Sales Tax Certificate, good for this show only to each dealer.
All dealers must file this form. If you have a
Georgia Sales & Use Tax number and will be reporting these
sales on your regular form, then you still must file this form
FS-32 but you provide only your
name, address and your tax ID
number. monthly meetings The club maintains a Library in the
clubhouse. To meet growing membership, the members
recently
reorganized the clubhouse to make more room and
seat more members
and also had the parking lot
enlarged. They have scheduled work and cleanup
days at the clubhouse to improve and maintain
what they have inside and
out. Read a sample issue of SCRIBE A Membership/Contact list
containing the names,
addresses, society affiliations, and email addresses of bulletin editors worldwide is
provided to each S.C.R.I.B.E. member annually. In
addition to
occasional
regional meetings, S.C.R.I.B.E. conducts a
half-day in the town of Quartzsite, Arizona. View . Annual Editors' Symposium Scenes
From the 26th Annual Meeting and Editors' Symposium
(2007) and Sunday, 13 and under free with paid adult Held in conjunction with the
Annual Show, December
13-14. Boulder Model Railroad Club Friday is - special
activities and free admission for participating students. Kids' Day 15 Dealers -
offering gems, rocks,
minerals,
lapidary
items, tools & supplies, jewelry,
fossils, and more! Exhibits- Cases by
club members, dealers, and area clubs and museums. Over 50
quality jewelry, mineral, gem,
bead and fossil
dealers display
their items over the three day show (Friday - Sunday). It is
considered by many to be the best Society
show in Northern California -
if not the
entire west (Tucson excluded).
Club members, sister club members and dealers fill Centennial
Hall with
many great educational exhibits. The Society will
also be celebrating its .  We especially hope that our
honorary
members can attend this
special
evening to share some stories
of the past. The public is invited
to join us.60th
anniversary New-member
orientation
begins at 6:00 PM. Please check in
at front the desk. Monthly
General Membership Meetings are held at
the , 937 Spring Street, Placerville, CA Senior
Center.Guests
are always
welcome! 
npgs@ccfms.ca Still want to know more about us? Why not read the most recent issue of our newsletter, the Pink Dolomite Saddle Bulletin, or stick around a while and check out our photo gallery to view some of our recent and past activities. I'm sure that you will find us a more than friendly bunch. Club : Meetings The cost of the show is £1560 per person, which includes
flights from the UK, transportation by coach and bed and breakfast accommodation on a shared room basis. Places on this trip are strictly limited, as it is only possible to hold 11 rooms. Please contact Doug Garrod at immediately if you would like further information or a booking form. A non-refundable deposit of £650 per person is required to confirm your booking. For more information, contact the club by mail, , or attend a
meeting. To
join, fill out a and send
it with your dues to the address
above. e-mail membership application are on the
second Thursday of each month at 7 p.m., at the (9 and
Arapahoe, northeast corner) -- enter the parking lot
just west of the Boulder
Public Library. Yahoo
Shopping We at Home4School Gear are as well...that is,
interested! This
translates into our commitment to not only trying to save you
money, but also helping you
get what you
need! We only carry
the highest quality lapidary equipment,
premium rough rock, and
custom-made jewelry.  
 Whether you are a novice, hobbyist or
professional, we know that
things in the world of lapidary can be
be expensive, as well as confusing. The club is a member of
the California Federation of
Mineralogical Societies
(CFMS) MEMBERS AREA Monthly
Meetings The Calaveras Gem & Mineral
Society holds meetings on
the except in July and August.
At each club meeting there is a potluck, business meeting
and main presentation, and members share other interesting
information about
the hobby.third Sunday of the
month    HOW
TO FIND US:    We are
easy to findif you are familiar
with the     Santa
Clarita area.  If not, we're always willing to
help    E-mail usby clicking on the
E-mail address at the top     of this
page -OR-     Enter your starting
address in
the boxes in the   
 "GET DIRECTIONS" feature
on the right, and you will   
The Norton Shows at Sevierville Events
Center at Bridgemont Celebrating 21 Years of Operation,
Wholesale, Cash-and-Carry
Markets, 4 Times
Annually, 600 -
1100 Booths, Beautiful, Convenient, Modern,
State-of-the-Art, Sevierville Events Center at Bridgemont.
More than $280,000.00 Annual
Advertising Budget, Concentrated Advertising
Monthly in Respected Periodicals:
etc. and Individual Invitations to 102,000 Storeowners.Gifts
and Decorative Accessories, Giftware News, Accessory Merchandising, The Swim Journal, Cover, Some shows are very specialized; others are very diverse. For 2009, according to the Tucson trade bureau, there will be over 40 howsa term used when describing sites set up specifically for multiple vendors. Wholesale only shows are shown on the map below with yellow placemarks. Clicking on any placemark below will give you more information and show a link to that show. Offering a diverse array of challenging courses with breathtaking views, the city is
a popular destination for golf
aficionados everywhere. Hit the links early when you
take advantage of our
American breakfast buffet, served from 6:00am &#150;
10:00am. At the end
of the day, a friendly get
together in our Breeze
Patio Bar & Grill will relax you
before another
exciting day spent on the greens. We have big
news!We've opened a store in beautiful
downtown Waldport, OR.Our address is .We're open three
days a week:The front of the store we've set up for retail
sales, with goodies such as grit, wheels, drill bits, and
machinery.The rest
of the store is a workshop where we continue to teach lapidary arts to anyone who wants to learn.380 Hemlock St, Ste. The most common design created a standard size of 20 by 48 ft (6 by 15 m) with 10 ft (3 m) radius, allowing 720 square feet (67 m ) of usable floor space, with optional four-foot overhangs at each end for protection of entrances from the weather. Other sizes were developed, including 20 by 40 ft (6 by 12 m) and 40 by
100 ft (12 by 30 m) warehouse
models. This CD, along with the yearly Membership Roster, will be mailed FREE to all paid-up Members by the end of February or early March. NEW members will also receive a FREE copy of the CD compilation as a welcoming gift. Additional copies of the 2007 2-disk CD may be purchased for $3.00, including postage, from the SCRIBE Treasurer, Bob Hughes; PO Box 1633; East Ellijay, GA 30539-0028. Some shows also have a lapidary or geology club exhibiting, either cutting and polishing gemstones or showing their geological collections.  URL: www.ukcraftfairs.com Directory listing of craft fairs around the UK, along with other resources including craft associations and clubs. A large upto date list of national/local events and places to visit, by region can be found  at the Aerolite Meteorites owner
Geoffrey Notkin guest stars
regularly in
documentaries about meteorites and meteorite hunting including for , (in production) for , for, for, and for. See the exclusive behind-the-scenes photos in our special "making of" features!WE'RE ON TV! Naked Earth: Our AtmosphereNational Geographic ChannelCosmic CollisionsThe Discovery Channel Wired Science PBSHow The Earth Was MadeThe History Channel Cash & Treasures The Travel Channel meteorite hunting TV documentary and Tucson Gem and Mineral Show Committee remains dedicated to presenting extraordinary mineral, gem, fossil, lapidary and jewelry exhibits. These exhibits provide a rare window into private and museum collections from around the world. Saturday Night Program The Saturday Night Dinner Programon February 14, 2009 will include a silent auction, full dinner menu, awards
ceremony, slide competition awards and a live auction. Artists
Gallery and Art in Stone display. Free admission. Free
parking. Free shuttle between
shows.Jan. 31-Feb. 14
Arizona Mineral & Fossil Show
1333 N. Oracle Rd.   February
sponsored by the . , , AZ. 10-6 Thurs.-Sat., 10-5
Sun. Theme:
Mineral oddities. $9, 14 and under free. : 520-322-5773.Feb.
12-15 , Tucson Gem and Mineral Show
Tucson Gem and Mineral Society Tucson Use of our is convenient and is encouraged. lapidary shop Other educational endeavors of the club include:  Library - Members are welcome to partake of the club's library with many journals, reference books, and periodicals. - The club bulletin, , is published and sent to members monthly (except July and August) to keep them informed about club activities. Note: After meeting for many years at the museum, this is out new meeting location beginning in December 1998.  Newsletter The monthly publication Music City Rockette is the newsletter of the Middle Tennesse Rockhounds. Field Trips Field trips to collecting sites are continually being planned. Details are available in the newsletter and at the meetings. (view of front and show entrances) Main Offices
of Searles Valley
Minerals Company Trona, California For more than sixty five years, countless thousands of visitors have come to Trona during the second weekend in October for the annual .  And each year more collectors converge for the 36 hours of frantic, non-stop activity to collect some of theGem-O-Rama MEMBERS AREA Lapidary Shop The lapidary instruction is offered by the shop monitors who open the shop up on Tuesday evenings and 1st and 3rd Saturday mornings; . Beginners can be instructed by the monitors concerning the safe operation of the equipment and
how to cut slabs and make
cabochons. see shop schedule
There are often other instructors available as well,
offering instruction for
wire-wrapping and faceting. The
general meetings involve a short board meeting including
public announcements and open discussions. An organized
educational presentation
is given after a short social
break and raffle. Junior participation is encouraged and guests
are always welcome. Applications for membership
may be made
after attending
three meetings.
Dues are $18 for single, $25 for couple, $2 for
sponsored junior. Contact Us The DGMG show features award
winning displays of gems, minerals, and fossils.
KIDS! Jump start
your mineral
collection with a grab bag
from the show. Each bag
contains 10 different
minerals!
See skilled gem
cutters at work!
Beautiful minerals from across
the state and around the
world. Find out about local clubs, upcomming filed trips, and
collecting opportunities. Provides legislative watch in
interest of clubs and
individuals. Promotes good
citizenship and environmental
practices thru Code of Ethics. Promotes
safety. Annual show in
conjunction with regional
show. Provides
scholarships. NFMS
Organization of Rock and Gem Clubs in States of Washington,
Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Northern Utah and Alaska. Provides
guidance for individual clubs. It doesn't matter what
kind of Trade Shows or markets
you target. If you already attend any of these shows, inquire
about how to purchase our sample lines. We
welcome the chance to be your
China Factory Agent.Vendors Wanted: Cyber Import
no longer attends trade shows outside China. All our time is consumed to oversee production from Beijing and our branch offices. We coordinate exports from thousands of sources in our factory network. MEMBERS AREA Membership The club holds meetings on the except in July and August. At each club meeting there is a potluck, business meeting and main presentation. In
addition, there is a member
showcase where a
different club member truts their stuff.nbsp; There is also a
"knowledge box" where members
present information on various topics, such as mineral hardness, what a Herkimer
Diamond is, identification of various kinds of
petrified wood,
etc. Dining delights range from Italian to
Japanese to Chinese to Thai to
scrumptious steaks and seafood.
Two malls and many
interesting shops offer fun shopping. You'll find just
what you want to make your meeting, show, or event a
fun time on and off the Exposition Center's grounds.
Call us or to review what you need for your event. We'll be
glad to assist you!
All Gem &
Bead Faires are open to the public. Classes &
demonstrations are offered at every Bead Faire and most
Gem Faires. Jewelry repair service while you wait. Plus, a
chance to win hourly
door prizes. Visitor's Profile:
Suppliers of jewelry, minerals, fossils, gemstones, beads, lapidary tools, jewelry
making supplies, and so many other related products & Generla Public are the target audience. Gem ShowThe club hosts a each year at the Calaveras County Fairgrounds in Angels Camp. will be held . Gem and Jewelry Show and Salein MarchNext year's showMarch 28-29, 2009 The show generally includes a kid area, exhibit cases, demonstrations, snack bar, silent auction, door prizes and a raffle. Vendors sell such items as minerals, meteorites, fossils, gems, rocks, jewelry, beads, tools and supplies for making jewelry. ... With a fully equipped
workshop, members can cut and
polish their own specimens. Silversmithing and other
associated
crafts are also
offered on a
regular basis. Activities include classes and workshops,
informational programs, field trips, and more. In
addtion, the club
hosts the Annual Gem & Mineral Show the second
weekend in July each year. Please
use the
links on the
left to browse our site. There
are pink halite sales in the
club's General Store where you can
purchase a  specimen of the
beautiful
Searles Lake pink halite . There are 21
dealers that have been
carefully
selected to provide a wide variety of
materials and products, and who are anxious to talk with you about their products.  See who our dealers are and what they have by clicking on  . We invite to the show to display and sell such items as faceted gems, minerals, cutting materials, finished jewelry, lapidary and jewelry-making materials, equipment, and books.commercial dealers Ournextwill be held on The show
will be located in
the Main Building and Organ Room of the , 100 Placerville
Drive, , California.Rock &
Gem ShowOctober 17 &
18, 2009.El Dorado County FairgroundsPlacerville Whether
you are a serious
collector, beginning
novice, museum curator,
interior decorator, or just a curious
visitor looking for gift ideas, you
will be glad you
came. There will be
paleontologists and fossil
enthusiasts selling amazing specimens. They will
be displaying all ranges of
fossils from
trilobites, shark teeth, and ammonites to
larger specimens such as mammoth materials and even complete
dinosaurs.
============================================
============================================
  Beautiful photos of Pennsylvania
Minerals and Fossils.
Collected by CPRMC member and noted PA
collector, Kerry Matt. You'll also
find information on
Kerry's two
self-published books.
 
============================================= Specimens
featured on our homepage were
collected on
club fieldtrips. Join CPRMC and start
finding treasures for
yourself.  
.   (SJHY To achieve its goals the
Society
organises:
nbsp;excursions to quarries
and to mineral rich sites
in the
country; nbsp;visits to
museums and exhibitions;
nbsp;mineral identification and stone polishing courses in its
premises in Helsinki; nbsp;an annual stone polishing
competition among its
members; nbsp;monthly
member meetings in Helsinki with a specific theme;
  Mailing Address P. O. Box 950
Placerville, CA
95667 Telephone (530) 676 - 2472 Please contact if
you would like to share web site links
or have
comments about the site. Webmaster
About us The El Dorado Mineral and Gem Societyof
Placerville, California, was
founded in January 1949. The
club's purpose is to learn about and
share interests in rocks,
minerals, fossils,
earth sciences, and the lapidary arts.
 See  Flyer - 2009 Show for
dates and times
What's New for 2009 Show 1.   Field Trip
Parking.  To give everyone an equal chance to find
good pink halite we
will again require everyone to
park their cars in the
parking lot adjacent to      the collecting area.
pink halite 3.   Port-a-potties at
show building. Our showroom
partner is Anne Black of and you can find both of us in Suite
230 at the lovely
(at St. Mary's, one
block east
of I-10). .AEROLITE METEORITES IMPACTIKA InnSuites hotel at
475 North Granada See our ads in
Meteorite magazine and the
Tucson EZ-Guide We
are open
every day from . Admission is
free and open to
the public. Bring buckets,
rags, soap for the clean up! Bring your family to our
Open House's to enjoy lots of food, rocks and company!
For the if your last name
starts with: A - F: Bring a Salad G
- P: Bring Desserts Q - Z: Bring a Hot
DishPot Luck (Hot
dogs will be provided by the club) ·Club
Holiday Party - December TBA,
2009 @ 6:00PM Feel free to if
there's any particular material you'd like to see. I hope you enjoy your visit, and return regularly to let me know to see what is currently for sale. Brazilian carnelian agate Item 1211car Price SOLD Shattuckite in chrysocolla Item 1211sha Price SOLD Mook jasper Item 1211moo Price Presented by Jeri Jones, member of the CPRM Club Jones Geological Services, Spring Grove, Pa.  Saturday, September 13 and Sunday, September 14:
             10:30
11:00 a.m.Fun with Fossils              12:00 12:30 p.m.Fun with Minerals                  1:30 2:00 p.m.The Making of an Earthquake                  3:00 3:30 p.m.Let Look at Some Local Fossils                  4:00 4:30 p.m.Fun with MineralsScouts can earn merit badges and activity pins for free.Sessions are at 11 AM and 2 PM both days. The original design was a 16 by 36 ft (5 by 11 m) structure framed with steel members with an 8 ft (2.4 m) radius. The sides were corrugated steel sheets. The two ends were covered with plywood, which had doors and windows. The interior was insulated and had pressed wood lining and a wood floor. Thousands of dealers in every imaginable gemstone, one-of-a-kind jewelry creations, estate jewelry, special celebrity exhibits, accessories, and products for
everyone from the rockhound to the amateur jeweler, can
be found at the
International Gem & Jewelry Show. Deep discounts
and the infinite variety attract the public to the
dealers from every corner
of the
world: China, India, Indonesia, South Africa, West
Africa, Australia, Poland,
Russia, Canada, the American Southwest,
and more. , Shepton Mallet
the Isle of Avalon area one
of the mysterious energetic regions of the country, why not
visit and pop down
to the show which has a large
and varied
range of exhibitors and all things crystal and
mineral on offer. If you can't wait until then and
want to see lots more
visit us in the shop or where we
currently have over 4400 products listed! We are
also planning some additional activities for Sunday
morning after breakfast. Dry
camping is
available on-site at a cost of
$10 per unit per
night. Full service camping is
available near by at
Coombs Country Campgound at 2619 Alberni Highway. A
list of other accommodations will be
available later in the season. There is a full range of
accommodation available within
fifteen minutes of Gemboree. Welcome to the Lawrence County Rock Club, Inc. (A.K.A. The Bedford Rock Club). we are an educational organization dedicated to the advancement and enhancement of rock, mineral, fossil, and gem collecting; the study of geology and earth science; the development and study of lapidary arts; and the exchange of ideas, information and the comradary
between individuals and groups with similar
interests and
purposes. The biennial ICA
Congress is one of the significant events for the
coloured gemstone industry.
China Gold, Jewellery & Gem Fair 2009 will invite more than 500 global coloured
gemstone corporations to
explore the current status of
and prognosis for the coloured
gemstone market in
China, giving impetus to the industry.
Santa Cruz Mineral & Gem Society Annual Show Santa Crus Civic Auditorium Corner of Center St. and Church St. Sat. & Sun. 10 AM - 5 PM Dean Welder: (408) 353-2675 Email: wdeanwelder@yahoo.com Website:Santa Cruz, California www.scmgs.org May 9 & 10 Reno Gem & Mineral Society Annual Show Livestock Events Center Exhibit Hall 1350 Wells Avenue Sat. If you want us to bring
specific material, contact us. We sell both wholesale and
retail at
all shows.
For the Denver Fall, Tucson, and Denver Spring shows, we set
up in a hotel room which
offers limited space. For these
shows we
limit our stock mostly to what
we produce from our mining
claims--amazonite
and smoky quartz combination
specimens, topaz, and other pegmatite
minerals. 0 items Ayla's Wonderful
World of Beads Ayla's has managed to string
together the
top bead
vendors from around the
world to provide Ayla's
Wonderful World of Beads customers with a wide selection
of high-quality freshwater pearls, gemstones, art glass,
sterling silver, seed
beads, findings and beading supplies. Don't miss this
beading extravaganza! In 2009 we are only
promoting the Evanston Spring and Fall shows. The
Society
organizes two major field
trips -- the in May each year to one of the affiliated
clubs' areas, and the Summer Camp to
explore a more remote region of the province. Annual
Rockhound's Rendezvous Join us and experience a new way of looking at the Earth, and our place on it. Explore stunning backcountry areas, hunt rocks and minerals, learn to work and set gemstones. » - A non-profit organization to encourage and promote the hobby of lapidary. Club Directory, gem and mineral shows, field trips, and other activities of member clubs. » -
"Lithophiles" are rock lovers and this club serves the
Livermore California area
with monthly meetings, field
trips, educational programs, and an annual show
"Lithorama". » - Club
promotes the study and collecting of minerals, fossils,
artifacts and the lapidary
arts. They also have programs
to teach you how to cut your own stones and make your
own jewelry pieces. These clubs are family friendly and offer
great opportunities to enjoy
the outdoors, learn new skills,
and make many new friends who share your
interests. Contact one today and start
having fun! Atlanta - GA Mineral Society Annual Ham &
Bean Dinner 5:00 and 6:15 p.m. Homemade beans
and pies!
Library book
sale 10:00 - 4:00 at the
Library Sunday Library book sale 10:00 - 2:00 at
the Library What People are Saying
About the Gilsum
Rock Swap This year the Gilsum
Rock Swap was
recently featured in the Manchester Union Leader story: There's a wealth of things to do close to home. Non-members may observe lapidary sessions and may participate with the approval of the instructor and Board of Directors. Due to safety concerns, proper instruction on equipment use is mandatory for everyone who participates. must be followed. No one under 18 will be registered unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.El Dorado County Mineral and Gem Society We will also allow you to return       with your car at the end of collecting to pick up your people, tools and specimens.   In 2008 it was clear that 4 port-a-potties at the show       building was not enough. Next year we will add two more, and one will be handicap accessible. When you learn how to cut a cabochon, you will
learn how to
use some of the work shops equipment. We
have professional instructors to
assist you in this process
every step of the way so you are
not alone. volunteer ·Monday
Nights 7 - 9 p.m. are
reserved for beginners so you have the work shop all
to yourselves to work and
learn with instructors. You will find price ranges from less than one dollar to those items priced in the thousands of dollars. All types of gemstones, both mounted and un-mounted are available.What types of items are available for purchase at gem, mineral, fossil and jewelry shows? Natural,"from the Earth", Mineral specimens in rough form for the lapidary hobbist, and in
high quality display specimens in
small micro size, and large cabinet size
and Museum size. The later
addition of a provided the
opportunity for
the club to facilitate both educational and creative aspects
of the
hobby. lapidary shop A large
rock fireplace
built with petrified wood,
mariposite, quartz
crystals, and other minerals and rocks
representative of the area is
a beautiful and
appropriate feature within the
clubhouse. A kitchen and ample tables
and seating for
members allows the club to hold
potlucks and other activities at . The
Club has a special group for Juniors, 8 to 12 years of age.
Basic lapidary and other arts are taught.
Jewelry making, including silversmithing,
metal casting and gem faceting are also taught. Shows displaying
gems, jewelry, carvings and other items made by members and
the various mineral and fossil collections of members are
hosted by the Club from time to time.        21,
22 February 2009 York RacecourseYork, North
Yorkshire. Details
and Directions Exhibitors
       14, 15 March 2009 Kempton Park
RacecourseStaines Road East (A308) Sunbury on Thames, West London. Details and
Directions Exhibitors        28
29 March 2009 Cheltenham
RacecoursePrestbury
Park, Cheltenham, Gloucester. Details and Directions Exhibitors        4 and 5 April 2009 Outstanding will feature fine mineral, lapidary and jewelry by members and guest exhibitors. case displays Fun and interesting.  !   !  ! activities for children Door Prizes Raffle Snack Bar Ourwill have a wide variety of rocks and minerals. silent auction Enjoy the show and plentiful in present day interests. See "" for more information about our area.in a setting that is rich in history Visitors Links Interest, knowledge and skill in the lapidary arts and
in the art of metal working, embodying the use of polished gems and minerals when appropriate. Interest in the collection and study of rocks and minerals, to increase knowledge of geology and related earth sciences, including the holding of an annual show. Fellowship and cooperation, the sharing of common interests and a better understanding of the activities of the members. In July and August, there is no meeting. Board Meetings
Board of Directors Meeting from
10 am to 12 pm 1st Saturday of
the Month. Note: some months this will vary due to events or the request of board members. Dates to Remember First Sunday in October from 9 AM to 4 PM. Beading is the 1st and 3rd Thursday Or you may follow the hyperlinks below to some of the best articles:30.08.2001 here The Times - June 25, 2001: Amateurs beat Nasa to Mars meteorites, from Adam Sage in Paris (this article is no longer available, sorry...) Sky & Telescope - May 25, 2001: Sahara Yields More Rare Meteorites, by J. Kelly Beatty What do these new data imply for the prospects of past and present life? for more information about past and future lectures or to download a flyer.Public Info: Visit the USGS Evening Public Lecture website A video archive of the current season's lectures, including Pete Modreski's "Gemstone Deposits
of the United
States," is available on the USGS's website here: (Page opens in a separate window.
Jasper Street.  The Center
is comprised of work space for cutting, trimming, grinding,
sanding, polishing, and
faceting. TLS
provides suitable lapidary
materials for beginners.  Classes are also offered in many jewelry arts such as beading, wire wrapping, and metal work.   All classes begin at 7:30pm and end at 9:30pm.   Contact Ellen Schwarzkopf for further information.