If you would like to tell everyone about your catch go to our and let everyone know. GUESTBOOK Government or annual financial report filed by the Ouachita River Foundation is available to the public. A copy of the Tax Exempt Application submitted to the IRS and the Tax Exempt Approval Letter issued by the IRS is also available to the public. Any person or persons seeking this information may do so by written request to: Board of Directors Ouachita River Foundation P.O. At the present time we are working closely with a few medical professionals in the Tampa Bay area, but we welcome the opportunity to work with you and your chosen health care provider. We appreciate your patronage and entrusting us with your over all health and wellness. All Therapists practicing
in this establishment are skilled; state
licensed and nationally certified individuals who hold themselves to a high standard of ethics and professionalism.highly We offer a variety of payment options for your convenience. Gift certificates and discounts available. Downstream, the Ouachita flowsinto Lake Ouachita (near Hot Springs, AR), then after leaving a series of lakes, the Ouachita begins to take on a different appearance as it flows nearly 600 miles to join the Tensas and Little Rivers at Jonesville, Louisiana, forming the Black River. The Ouachita River is shown in The major towns and cities along the river are not shown, but include Mena, Hot Springs, Arkadelphia and Camden in Arkansas and Sterlington, Monroe, West Monroe, Columbia, Harrisonburg and Jonesville in Louisiana. We believe we have
the best upscale fitness clubs for the people of Leake, Attala, and the surrounding counties.  We have an attentive and knowledgeable staff, a variety of the most modern workout equipment, and  clean, comfortable facilities.   We understand that making a decision to work out is difficult.  Will I like the other members?  Will I really stick to it this time?  Did I make the right choice in joining this particular gym?  These are fair questions that can only be answered by trying before you commit to buying.  And, women are responding by signing up and trying out the workout. But does it work? Let examine the gym. A lot of women dislike the gym. More to the point, we dislike showing our bodies at the gym. We would like to wear some comfortable workout wear but with men at the gym we opt instead for an big shirt and baggy pants. Many women who feel self conscious about their bodies don go to gyms if they can help it. Where else can they go to work out? Now there is Curves for Women Curves is an exercise facility totally for women. It is a fitness coaching program that
adjusts to your level of fitness while continually making changes to challenge you. Members get the opportunity to learn about diet and nutrition and how it plays a part in your health. Added to that, members can connect online to find support for their exercise and healthy eating plan. Curves is still working for many women. Rise and Shine Scrambled Eggs, Homemade Biscuits/Gravy, Bacon, the works in the Wilderness Lodge Opening of the Gates Map Reading and Treasure Hunt Blobbing in Lake Adirondack Swimming in the Tropical Pool or Bermuda Triangle Funyaking down the Caddo River Lunch in the air-conditioned Wilderness Lodge Activity Time and Visit with Friends Canteen Open for Snacks High Element Ropes Course Tom's Swimmin' Hole Horseback Riding Explore
Blackbeard's Cave Courtyard
Chat Time, Trading Company Opens Huge Family Style Dinner in the Wilderness Lodge Star Wars and Field Games in the Great Meadows Soccer Field Back to the Wilderness Lodge for Homemade Purple Cows Campfire and Spirit Stick Skits Closing of the Gate and Bedtime at Fort Jackson AMITY - Caddo River Coasters Running & Walking Club, PO Box 70, Amity 71921. ARKADELPHIA - Club Arkadelphia, Rt. 3, Box 656, Arkadelphia 71923. 50 members. Contact: Ronnie Penney 501-246-6343 (h), 501-267-5075 (w). BATESVILLE - White River Road Runners, P.O. Box 2223, Batesville, AR 72501 Contact: Ken McSpadden 870-793-2464 Web site BENTON - Saline County Striders, PO Box 866, Benton 72018. Founded 1981. 49 members. Contact: Pete Ireland 501-778-0986. BENTONVILLE - Ozark Road Runners, PO Box 807, Bentonville 72712. 25 members. Contact:
John
Simmons 501-271-8602 (h), 501-273-0063 (w). CABOT - Cabot Cruisers, 15 Talbert, Cabot, AR 72023.