The Center was hosted by the FBI and was a predecessor to the
Department of Homeland Security. He served at
the Pentagon as part of the Joint Staff in support of
Noble Eagle and
Enduring Freedom. There werent
many schools that had national security programs available, says
Russo about his college search
in early 2003. AMU was perfect for me. He began
his studies in December 2003,
taking a full-time course load
until he completed his program in August 2007,
despite working more than 40 hours a week as a defense
contractor. Russo says that
he couldnt
have done it without the support and motivation he received from family, friends and
co-workers. I had to make sure that I followed a
schedule for study time and I was determined to finish
my degree, he says. Russo
says he began benefiting from his degree program even before
graduating. In July 2004, he
was selected to be an
instructor for the
U.S. In June,1995, AMU
achieved initial accreditation with the Accrediting
Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council
(DETC).  With this national
accreditation, AMU students
became eligible for Department of
Defense Tuition Assistance
Programs, the Veterans Administration
Entitlement
Programs, and federal and
corporate
tuition
reimbursement benefits. In January,1996,
AMU introduced its undergraduate
program with three initial
areas of study:  Military History,
Military Management, and
Intelligence Studies.  These programs were intended to
provide military personnel an opportunity to earn
a relevant
baccalaureate degree.  Later, AMU began offering an
Associate of Arts degree in General Studies to
fulfill the needs of
service members
seeking a two-year degree.  The University continued
to expand its curriculum in response to the needs of its students and the military.  Accordingly, programs such as Criminal Justice, Management, International Relations, Homeland Security, Security Management, Transportation and Logistics Management, Sports Management, Emergency and Disaster Management, and, later, a full range of liberal arts programs were introduced to meet the diverse interests and aspirations of the Universitys
growing student body.  With
these new degree programs, AMU began attracting students from
professions outside the military,
primarily those in public service with law
enforcement, fire and rescue,
emergency planning, government, and defense
contractors.  "We enjoy working with the military
education community to help
best meet the needs of service members, said Jim
Sweizer, vice
president of
military programs for AMU. We are actively
engaged in the Council of College and Military
Educators and their state
associations to
ensure we are up-to-date
on the military community's educational needs." AMU continues
to serve and
attract military
students with unique mission-related degree programs, affordable tuition, an undergraduate book grant, monthly class starts and a staff that understands the military community. Approximately 34,000 active duty, Guard, Reserve and veterans are enrolled in 73 undergraduate and graduate degree programs. Military Advanced Education is the only publication that links soldiers,
sailors, airmen and
Marines  and
their families  with
military-friendly colleges and universities. In 2002, AMU expanded into the American Public University System and established American Public University to serve the educational needs of the public service community.  Adopting the slogan of Educating Those Who Serve , the APUS Mission expanded to serve the nations military and public service community with superior, relevant, and affordable distance learning programs which prepare them for leadership and service in a diverse, global society.   With this organizational and mission expansion, the
University System continued to expand and refine its
curriculum to meet the special
educational needs of its diverse student body. Students
whose accommodation requests are
denied will not be discriminated
or retaliated against if they
appeal the
decision.  It is the students
responsibility to identify him/herself
to the university as having a disability, and submit any
required documentation, prior to engaging in any
activity for which accommodation is being requested. 
For example, a
request to
retake a
test or course due to a
disability will not be
considered for a test or course that a student has already
taken. Transcripts from Canadian universities
confirming Bachelors or Masters degrees will be accepted for entry into a Master's program if the school is a member of the Association of Canadian Colleges and Universities, if accreditation is shown on the transcript from the Ministry of Education of the province, OR if the school has been given degree -granting rights by an act of the Canadian legislature. Those with prior graduate-level work at a non-US institution who wish to
apply for a Transfer Credit
Evaluation
must request
that anofficial course by course evaluation is
sent directly to our
university.Accepted
Credential Evaluation Service
Organizations: International
Student Our 5-step admissions process will allow
you to apply for admission,
complete
your new student orientation,
request a transfer credit
evaluation, apply for Federal Student Aid, and register for classes.  to get started today!  Click here APUS complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and state and local requirements regarding students with disabilities. In compliance with federal and state regulations, reasonable accommodations are provided to qualified
students with disabilities. For more information
about accommodations for students
with disabilities, click or contact us at . here
dsa@apus.edu   Our Admissions staff is available Monday 
Friday from
8am  5:00 pm, EST
to answer
your questions and provide
assistance with the admissions
process. 
You can reach us by phone
at 1-877-777-9081, email us at ,
or click on the
"chat now" icon on any page on this site to correspond
instantly
during business
hoursHave questions?
info@apus.edu . We are here
to serve you, and we help you work your studies around your
everyday
commitments. The
asynchronous course delivery
means no specific login times are required.
Simply log on and download your assignments when its
convenient for you during the week. At AMU, you can progress through your degree path faster. First, courses start monthly, because we know your personal commitments dont always align with a traditional semester schedule. Second, we offer and week sessions for many classes, so you have the option to take more intense, 8-week courses when your schedule allows. Finally, you wont have to worry that a course you sign up for will be dropped at the last minute due to low enrollment.816 Click here for a complete listing of degree programs.
AFFORDABILITY Despite significant rate hikes commonly found
throughout the industry,
AMU has
maintained modest tuition
levels for our undergraduate
and graduate
courses. This, while
maintaining a commitment to
continuous quality assessment of our academic programs and providing the best distance
learning
environment possible for our
students.  In fact, AMU has established
a book grant so that undergraduate
students do not have to purchase their own books
or pay shipping costs, regardless of where they are
located. The
survey was administered in
spring 2008 by Indiana Universitys Center for Postsecondary Research in cooperation with the Indiana University Center for Survey Research.   Other findings indicate a considerable amount of student-faculty interaction. Ninety percent of senior students indicate that they frequently get prompt verbal or written feedback from faculty members. A key finding from the broader survey indicated that students taking most of their classes online report more deep approaches to learning in their classes, relative to classroom-based learners. 
Additionally, a large share of online learners reported very
often participating in intellectually challenging
course activities.
Alexander C.
McCormick, NSSE director
and associate professor of education at Indiana University says that NSSE survey findings related to online learning indicate that those who teach classes online may be making special efforts to engage their students. * Dates listed are approximate and for workflow purposes. TCE Mission Our Transfer Credit Department strives to serve the nations military and public
service communities by offering a comprehensive review
of all previous academic, military,
civilian, and public education and
training for
potential
credit
toward degree and certificate programs at American
Public University Systems (APUS)
two member institutions:
American Military University
(AMU) and American Public
University (APU). We established and created all the
Transfer Credit polices and procedures with our unique student population in mind.  We make every effort to provide our students with the maximum amount of credit for their previous education and training.  We adhere to the standards of good practice set forth by our accrediting bodies while maintaining the overall integrity for which our degree and certificate programs are known.   All members of the Transfer Credit Department hope the information on these pages is helpful to you and look forward to helping you achieve your academic goals with APUS.     She served for 18 years, 13 of them as a professional officer. She resigned as a major in what became the Russian Armed Forces. I joined because of my romantic ideas of the military, not practical ones, she reminisces. Mokrova wanted the
chance to
study foreign languages and live
among different cultures. Women officers were also rare at that
time and Mokrova wanted to change that. She was able
to earn a
bachelors
degree and a masters degree. The
perestroika movement, or economic
restructuring, in the late
1980s led to changes for the military, however. Mokrova
says the military was in a difficult transition and was losing its popularity among the people. American Military University Makes  Top 20 List of Military-Friendly Colleges and Universities Online University's Selection is the Second in as Many Years by Military Advanced Education Charles Town, W.Va., December 5, 2008  Military Advanced Education (MAE) has selected
(AMU) as one of Americas Top 20
Military-Friendly
Colleges and Universities for 2008. AMU
is a member
institution of (APUS) an
accredited online university system that
educates more than 41,000 adult learners worldwide. APUS also includes (APU) and is
one of the nations largest providers of higher
education to the
armed forces.   American Military University American
Public
University System American Public University MAE
chose its top 20
list based on each schools
significance in military education, whether for
number of military contracts, number of military students served, availability of financial aid and scholarship, or other military-friendly qualities.  AMU was founded in 1991 by a former Marine Corps officer and instructor and is one of the first online universities. However, he soon became very sick and learned he was allergic to hydraulic fluid. deCormier was then assigned gate security duties  third shift -- at the Little Rock
Air Force Base. It was just me in a shack with a light, he
says. He was able to do much of his
reading for his bachelors
degree on duty, completing
and uploading assignments when home. deCormier separated from the Air Force after serving four years. He then earned a position controlling satellites as a flight operations specialist, thanks to his Air Force experience and bachelor's degree. De Cormier knew further education was necessary for him to advance on his new career path. Space operations had been an interest of his since childhood, however. In addition to the admission requirements for undergraduate or graduate study, students whose native or primary language is not English must also
provide verification of
English
proficiency. 
For more information about English
proficiency requirements click . here
Learn more about international student requirements.
Students must have their
transcripts from their postsecondary education evaluated to
determine the U.S. equivalency.
Various international educational
firms can interpret the educational backgrounds of
people who have studied outside the United States and
need statements of U.S. equivalencies (see the list below under Accepted Credential Evaluation Service Organizations ). These evaluators issue two main types of reports:Non-US Transcripts Verifies the type of degree earned and whether or not the Non-U.S. institution is equivalent to an accredited U.S. institution.Degree-only verification Verifies whether or not the non-U.S. institution is equivalent to an accredited U.S. institution and includes a separate report that provides U.S. semester credit, grade equivalent, and level equivalent (graduate or undergraduate) for each course. The report is used for Transfer Credit Evaluations (TCE).Course by course evaluation Undergraduate transfer students (those who have college-level credits they wish to transfer) are required to submit an Request
for Transfer Credit
Evaluation application as part of their admission process. 
They must request the
educational
agency interpreting their non-U.S. NECESSARY INFORMATION ON DOCUMENTATION Should include the professional credentials of the evaluator, including what training and experience the evaluator has with the diagnosis and treatment of adults. The evaluator should be a licensed professional in the appropriate field and qualified to diagnose adults. Should include a specific medical diagnosis of the physical, mental or learning disability. Should include the names of the diagnostic tests used, evaluation dates, test scores and interpretation of test results. Should describe how the students is limited in functionality in a major life activity. Should include specific accommodation recommendations that are tied to the diagnosis and how the accommodations will impact the specific functional
limitations of the student. WAYS TO SEND YOUR
DOCUMENTATION Fax to 304-724-0909 Scan and email
to DSA@apus.edu Mail to APUS 
ATTN:  Disability
Accommodations  10110
Battleview Parkway Suite 114
Manassas, VA  20109
Students
should contact
the Disability Accommodations Officer at for any
information regarding disability
accommodations.Disability Services Accommodation Officer Contact Information Bachelor of Arts Degree in Criminal Justice from American Military University (AMU). He earned his Master of Science in Space Studies from AMU. He encouraged two of his children to check out AMU, both of whom are now enrolled. And, he encouraged two co-workers to do the same. One is now enrolled and one has already earned his masters degree. Why is
deCormier such an advocate for the online university? Its
just a great
way to earn a degree, he says, referring to the universitys
exceptional
courses, professors and
university policies . For example, he was able to earn his bachelors degree in less than two years, thanks to AMUs eight-week course options. He would take up to four courses at once, completing his bachelors in 2004.