Presentation Scheduling Planning Airtime Management Media Planning Advertising Sales Traffic Interactive and Enhanced Services Account Management Acquisitions Audience Research Audio Description Subtitling Compliance Channel Management Operations Library Post Production VOD NVOD IPTV Content Marketing and Delivery The True Benefits of SDA Over twenty years experience in television - specifically in Presentation / Planning / Commercial Airtime and Sales Liaison Practical and direct hands-on knowledge of the jobs involved Every candidate is interviewed by us personally before being presented to clients Currently a group of citizens are trying to bring back the "magic" of
the Silver Beach Amusement Park, by purchasing the original carousel, with the intent of making it a working exhibit in downtown St. Joseph. For more information, visit the .) Silver Beach Carousel Society's website Many people fondly remember the days of the
Shadowland Ballroom that was a part of the Amusement Park. Professional Development Professional Development The University of Michigan - Flint Human Resources Office, in conjunction with the Executive Officers, would like to announce the following professional development sessions.  These sessions are part of the continuing efforts to provide supervisory staff with professional development opportunities. Business Case for Diversity              Thursday, November 6,
2008,Date:        Michigan
Rooms A and B, UCEN, 9am to 11am.  Location:  This exciting new program addresses the positive impact and results that diverse groups achieve when working and learning together. Because the land and water are constantly meeting one another, many different life forms inhabit a beach, such as algae and other . Therefore, beaches are rich feeding grounds for migratory shorebirds. The beach also collects driftwood and other debris that a variety of beetles, spiders, and shorebirds like to feed upon. , , and often protect marshes and other wetlands from excessive wave and wind action. Spits, such as Long Point on Lake Erie and Oak Point on Lake Superior, may provide a habitat for plant and animal communities. For more information about the conference, including speakers, presentation material, and a survey opportunity, . click here                                                       Todd Olson, PTAC, and Chris
Wendel, SBTDC at the 2008 Traverse Business Expo at the Grand Traverse Resort. Chris Wendel, Regional Director, Michigan Small Business & Technology Development Center, and Vic McCarty discuss local business (and some sports). Filed under: — teliczan @ 11:21 pm HDR Photography Lubbers Farm I took this photo on in the early spring. It won’t be too long before it starts warming up. This is a great place to go for locally
grown food, plus, I the
Lubbers’ are great to
know. Lubbers Farm 3 Comments » If I still lived in Michigan, I would definitely support this farm…even though these Lubbers’ are not related to me as far as I know. Europeans began arriving in the 17th century, and for decades, the British, French and local Indian forces struggled for control. In 1783, the finally awarded Michigan to the new United States. The upstate logging and mining industries, and the automobile giants of Detroit, were built around the shipping lanes of the Great Lakes, and this tranquil midwestern state became an economic powerhouse in the 20th Century. The Upper Peninsula is a beautiful, rugged, sparsely populated place, where severe winters are commonplace. Employment and Training Information Technology Center Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth - Rehabilitation Services Third District Court - Wayne County Friend of the Court (YO! Participants Only) Youth Opportunity Movement Center Children's Palace (Developmental Child Care) - Samaritan Center Angel Land Day Care - Detroit's Work Place South Children's Place (Developmental Child Care) - DEC2K Tower Center     Van Services and Taxi Services - Job Access Reverse Commute program. Van Services - Work First Lighthouses on Lake Superior I took a trip around Lake Superior August 31-September 5, 1998, beginning at Munising, Michigan and following M-28 east to I-75, north to Canada, 17 from Sault Ste. Marie to Thunder Bay, and then
south on 61, and trips to
Upper Michigan during 1998 and 99. Here are some lighthouses I saw on those trips. You may click on the thumbnail photos to see a larger version of them. The Eagle River Lighthouse located in Eagle River is now a private residence. Or perhaps you have had to go for an interview and find yourself dreading the interview to such an extent that you are such a bundle of nerves when you get there that you don't do your best in the interview. NLP offers a range of different techniques to manage your emotions and internal thought processes so that you can achieve the results you want rather than your results being determined by un
resourceful states
that you might have found yourself in. Find out what is required and appropriate for a resume or CV. Resume Many organisations, particularly government organisations, require that you address specific selection criteria when you apply for a job. Find out how to address these criteria. Selection criteria If you are asked to attend an interview, it means that your job application has impressed the employer enough to get you this far. Understand what is required and appropriate for a job interview. Job interview This page was last updated at Tuesday, May 03, 2005 Info:Open to the public 9am to 5pm Swap meet set up begins at 7am Car Registration 8:30am until Noon. Contact = Show Website = All Ford-Powered Event and FCA Mini-Meet. June 5th and 6th,  2005 Ford Motor Company World Headquarters - Sunday, June 5th Northwest Lot, behind the Henry
Ford II World Center, Michigan Avenue and Southfield Freeway 9 a.m. Michigan Agriculture College, founded in 1855 was the first land-grant college in America and it continues to lead. Today the MAES and MSUE have gained a national and international reputation for excellence in research and outreach. The Gerald R. Ford International Airport is a major hub for flights.
You’ll find it easy to schedule your travel by air. For those driving, you can come north along Lake Michigan, cross it by ferry or arrive via highway. A historic Inn built in the 1920's, and we are now recognized on the State of Michigan  register as a State Historical site.  I was renovated with great care and consideration in 1992. Artisans were brought in to hand stencil walls and corridors with designs based on botanical themes and local Native American patterns,
which lend a warm and distinctive atmosphere to the Inn. Standouts include the Detroit Institute of Art (did you know that it is the fifth-largest fine arts museum in the country?), and the Grand Rapids Art Museum. The Detroit Science Center is geared to kids, and offers a host of family-friendly exhibits and galleries, not to mention the astonishing sensory experience of the museum's IMAX dome theater. Your kids will thank you. Michigan.org is a great resource for finding these museums.Things to Do In Michigan 2.
Lighthouses. Michigan has
more lighthouses than any other state. Docs. C 9.1/year Library has 1922-1932 Annual report of the Light-House Board to the Secretary of the Treasury for the fiscal year ended June 30th. U.S. Docs. C 9.1/year Annual report of the United States Coast Guard for the fiscal year ended June 30th... U.S. Docs. T 47.1/year Lighthouse service: its history, activities and organization (For more information on times and fees, visit the web site.) Amtrak In 1880, Logan Drake purchased 20-22 acres of sand dunes from the Native Americans. Later he joined up with Louis Wallace and formed the Silver Beach Amusement Company. A slide was built in the water for children; a moving stairway "the people mover" was installed on the bluff costing 1 cent to ride. Roller coasters, a carousel,
outdoor roller skating rink and dance pavilion were added.      Printer Friendly  Text Version  Email Page About Fort Wilkins and Copper Harbor Lighthouse, Copper Harbor Located on Lake Superior's rugged shoreline, nearly 600 miles northwest of Detroit, Fort Wilkins was once an active U.S. Army post built to keep the peace in Michigan's Copper Country. Begun in 1844 and abandoned just two years later, the fort was briefly regarrisoned in the late 1860s. With convenient class locations as well as online learning, University of Phoenix makes quality higher education highly accessible. Whether youe seeking an associate, bachelor, master or doctoral degree, we
can help you reach your
goal while you worknd much sooner than you might expect. In fact, University of Phoenix has helped thousands of students achieve the higher education they need to achieve higher success. We can help you too.You work hard. Krafve, general manager of the division and a Ford Motor Company vice president, predicted that the new brand would sell more than 200,000 cars in its first year. Market research was on his side. Through the first half of the 1950s mid-priced cars did well, and Ford executives believed their radical new division with its wildly styled models would take the country by storm. In anticipation of the September 4, 1957, launch, Ford Motor Company pumped up its hype to unprecedented levels. Come prepared to write your grant proposal.  Participants should have a funding source identified prior to class so all class time and writing are focused on the interests, requirements, and instructions provided by the funding source.  Prerequisite: Grant
Proposals Overview course or prior
grant writing experience. Mondays, March 23-April 6, 7-9:30 p.m., $145 Register after March 16 - $155 Toll Free Number: 1-800-562-1200 Please read these instructions before completing this application. We require that each applicant prepare and submit a Resume along with the completed application forms.  Your Resume must be posted on the Talent Bank, which is a part of Michigan's Employment Service.  It is an internet-based service available to any job seeker at .  We will utilize this Talent Bank to print a copy of your resume for your file.  Any person that has access to the internet can use this service. The tower and beacon were constructed first. The lightkeeper's house was built around it later. That beacon was replaced by range lights after the north and south piers were built in 1907 and 1919, respectively. St. Joseph and Grand Haven boast the only remaining two-pier range light systems with both towers and catwalks intact. In 1938, the U.S. Summer Rates Increase on weekends and for the following dates and all  holidays $25 per night. Two night minimum on weekends in  July and August and all Holidays; Memorial Day, 4th of July,  Labor Day and Apple Cider Century weekend September 29, 30, October 1, 2007 If you would like more
information about or
would like to make reservations, please email us at , , or call us atGordon Beach Inn Nineteen buildings survive, 12 of them original structures dating from the 1840s. Through Fort Wilkins' exhibits, audiovisual programs and living history interpretation, visitors may explore the daily routine of military service, experience with soldiers' families the hardships of frontier isolation and discover the lifeways of another era. Attractions include 19 restored buildings,
costumed interpreters, copper mining
sites, evening slide
programs, camping and
picnicking. The site also includes the with a restored 1848 lightkeeper's dwelling, 1866 lighthouse, 1933 steel light tower and interpretive trails. In fact, Detroit is positioned to become one of the first cities (along, perhaps, with Cleveland) to get its anchor institutions working collaboratively.  And in Detroit's case, most of the impetus for collaboration is emerging from the institutions (rather than from a monster funder). Dave Egner and Katy Locker, both with Hudson-Webber Foundation, are the instigators of 15:15, and they are supremely talented convenors and very smart thinkers. What a pleasure it is to sit around the table with such a dedicated, focused group of civic leaders. Ignace, Marquette, and if you are traveling by boat from Door County or Sturgeon Bay Wisconsin our marinas are ready to welcome you! challenging golf courses State Fair The Bays de Noc boast 211 miles of varied shoreline complete with . . . the most of any county in the
continental U.S.A. (b) When
the Congress, in the 1961
amendments, provided special  exemptions for some activities which had been held not to be included in  the exemption for agriculture (see subparts F and J of this part 780),  it was made very clear that no implication of disagreement with ``the  principles and tests governing the application of the present  agriculture exemption as enunciated by the courts'' was intended  (Statement of the Managers on the part of the House, Conference Report,  H. It was planned while
the American auto industry and the mid-sized segment was booming, but by the time the cars got into the hastily arranged Edsel dealerships the nation was in a deep recession. Middle-priced brands took a huge hit in the '58 model year. Mercury tumbled 48 percent; Buick was down 33 percent; Dodge was off 47 percent and De Soto dipped 54 percent. Partners in this effort
include Chambers of
Commerce throughout the region, Economic Development organizations, and many more. Northwest Michigan's Transition to the Knowledge Economy     Northwest Michigan's Transition to the Knowledge Economy Workshop was held on January 27, 2009 in Traverse City. Over 130 people gathered at the Hagerty Conference Center to better understand how Northwest Michigan can compete in the new, global economy. Dress appropriately for the position and industry and ensure a high level of hygieneQ. What should I wear to the interview? Be sure to bring a copy of your resume and references.  It is always helpful to the employer to also see copies of any certificates of achievement or qualification certificates you may have.Q. Luby's   - Employment opportunities at their corporate headquarters in Washington, DC and properties across the US. Marriott   - Operates 30 Wendy's
restaurants throughout western and southern Michigan. Meritage Hospitality Group   - Employment opportunities with a large hotel management company based in KY. Neal Management Corporation   - Apply for Burger King restaurant management and crew employment online. Also includes information on scholarships, awards and promotions. Northwest Franchise Association     Michigan has great diversity in agriculture, both in the range of crops and animals raised, as well as thriving industries and niche markets such as nursery and landscaping, orchards, greenhouses, Christmas trees, turfgrass, organic food, aquaculture, maple syrup, and forestry. This diversity is derived from wide variations in soil types, topography, climate and
economic conditions in the state.2. Busch Gardens   - Offering management and staff careers at over 325 company owned Chuck E. Cheese's locations. CEC Entertainment, Inc.   - Applications accepted online for all locations. California Pizza Kitchen   - Employment opportunities with western US resorts and spa clubs. Canyon Ranch
Health Resorts   - Employment opportunities with one of the largest Burger King franchisees in the US. Carrols Corporation   - Employment opportunities at a private golf, tennis and beach club located on Fishers Island, NY. Guests: Due to the overwhelming popularity of
Timothy's Restaurant, we no longer can guarantee any common areas for guests to use, as our lobby is a shared restaurant lounge.  If any of these are inconveniences to you, please visit our sister Inn, the , at .Lakeside Inn www.lakesideinns.com NOTICE:The Gordon Beach Inn has several policies and additional charges for some services or items that are offered to guests. SDA takes the laborious and time-consuming part of recruitment away from you Drawing on a variety of sources, you will be presented with a selection of candidates customised to your Job and Person
Specifications SDA has a policy of declining vacancies where we have no obvious suitable candidates to present. This action is taken to ensure that no time is wasted by the client in using other means such as advertising, to fill the vacancy We will tailor our services to achieve your objectives. navigation warning signals and marine safety, absorbing the lighthouse services. The original St. Joseph lighthouse with tower and beacon was torn down in 1955. The current lighthouse
replica was constructed later on the North Pier. Both the North and South Pier - which house the range lights - are publicly accessible. The current North Pier lighthouse was featured by the U.S. Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas Atlanta Northern California Southern California Canada Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Atlanta Georgia Savannah Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland -Boston Massachusettes Cape Cod Massachusettes Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire Northern New Jersey - Central New Jersey - Southern & Shore New Jersey New Mexico New York Metro - New York Long Island - New York Westchester - Upstate North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Philadelphia Pennsylvania
-
Northeast Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Dallas & North Texas - Houston, East & South Texas Central & West Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington, D.C. Boyer, 131 F. 2d 283; Walling  v. Friend, 156 F. 2d 429; see also Sec. 780.2 of subpart A of this part  780). An employer who claims the
exemption has the burden of showing  that it applies. (See Sec. 780.2) The section 13(b)(12) exemption for  employment in agriculture is intended to cover all agriculture,  including ``extraordinary methods'' of agriculture as well as the more  conventional ones and large operators as well as small ones.  Nevertheless, it was meant to apply only to agriculture. 29 CFR 780.402 - The general guides for applying the exemption. 780.402Section Number: The general guides for applying the exemption.Section Name: (a) Like other exemptions provided by the Act, the section 13(b)(12)  exemption is narrowly construed (Phillips, Inc. v. Walling, 334 U.S.  490; Bowie v. Gonzalez, 117 F. 2d 11; Calaf v. Gonzalez, 127 F. 2d 934;  Fleming v. Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) offers a range of different techniques and tools that can help you model successful people and achieve excellent results more quickly. Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP) is about taking control of your
brain and behavior to achieve the results that you want in life.  NLP also offers principles and techniques that can help you take charge of your emotional state. The most buoyant and busy area of business is concentrated in Presentation and Programme Planning. However, as the broadcast industry has evolved, we too have responded to that change. Jobs no longer fit into the neat pigeon holes they once
did,
and demand has grown for a more multi-skilled and flexible workforce, who are prepared to take on a variety of tasks, and respond to the changing needs of the business. Of course the traditional roles still exist, and we have plenty of skilled and professional candidates willing and eager to take on these challenges.