 
Gardening in Containers The Easy Way to Give your Garden a Lift
Gardening in containers is a great way to spruce up your garden. Whether you choose a simple window box or a more extravagant grouped display, a few well planted containers will brighten up dark corners and introduce a welcome splash of colour and fragrance - you can even grow vegetables in them!
In outdoor spaces with no soil such as courtyards, patios, balconies and terraces, gardening in containers is absolutely essential as it is the only realistic way to introduce planting.
Whatever type of garden you have, the great advantage of using containers is that plants can be moved around and grouped together at will giving your garden or patio an instant facelift. You can even take your container garden with you when you move!
Tips for Gardening in Containers
There is virtually no limit to the types of plants you can grow: perennials; flowering bulbs; colourful annuals; climbers; trailing plants ... the list goes on and on! The only limit is your imagination.What You Can Grow
trees and shrubs; bamboos, grasses, ferns and spiky plants;
Gardening in containers solves the tricky problem of growing plants that are not suited to your garden soil type. For example, if you have alkaline soil but love camellias, plant them in large pots of ericaceous compost.
It is also the solution to growing plants that need winter protection - grow them outside in the spring and summer and simply bring them indoors in autumn.
Before you begin to design your container garden make an assessment of the available light levels in your garden and choose plants accordingly.
Don't forget that pots and planters can be decorative features in their own right so choose them to suit the style you are aiming for. We've put together some tips on for your needs (and your pocket!) and suggested some low budget solutions.Pots and Planters
For the best effect use a variety of pot and plant sizes to create atmosphere and visual interest.
To add texture and visual interest to your display, try grouping plants with contrasting foliage.Design Tips
Include some evergreens with a sculptural form - Tree Ivies (), Japanese Aralias (), and Cabbage Palms () are all good for this purpose.x Fatshedera lizeiFatsia japonicaCordyline australis
Place aromatic and scented plants near benches or other seating areas.
Use a limited palette of foliage and flower colours to create atmosphere.
If you use your garden in the evening, plant white or light coloured plants as these become almost luminescent as daylight fades. Night scented stocks and tobacco plants also release their heady perfume at this time.
When designing your container garden try not to keep everything at ground level but introduce vertical interest by:Vertical Interest
Including containers at different heights to increase visual appeal. You can either buy purpose made stands or simply use bricks, concrete blocks or even empty upturned pots to raise them off the ground.
Using hanging baskets on walls and fences. Both hanging baskets and window boxes allow you to 'dress up' the outside of your house.
Planting climbers, trees, shrubs and large foliage plants.
Small spaces can be tricky. Avoid the temptation to use lots of tiny containers filled with small plants as these end up looking fussy and unsatisfactory. Instead:Small spaces
Use large plants, such as trees, shrubs and large-leaved foliage plants to make a bold statement. This always looks more effective. Just make sure the containers you use are large and sturdy enough not to topple over!
Go for a simple planting scheme using a small range of plants.
Increase the sense of light in small enclosed urban spaces by using trees with delicate leaves. Japanese Maples are particularly good for this.