A screen grab of the website set up by journalists at the .Rocky Mountain News
December 23, 2008 - 11:33AM
Employees of the have turned to the web in a desperate bid to save the struggling Colorado newspaper.Rocky Mountain News
But the 200 staffers at the Denver daily are not just looking online for revenue, they've launched a website, , to take the case for saving the 150-year-old newspaper directly to their readers. http://www.iwantmyrocky.com
EW Scripps Co, the newspaper chain that owns the , announced earlier this month that it was putting it up for sale after losing $US11 million ($A16 million) in the first nine months of the year.Rocky Mountain News
Employees of the paper went online with iwantmyrocky.com a week ago.
"Unless we can make something happen by the middle of January, our owners could close the Rocky," they wrote on the site.
"The owners of our paper have put us up for sale and hinted at shutting us down if they can't find a buyer," they said. "We are prepared to fight that.
"We are the reporters, editors, photographers, web producers and everyone who brings you the Rocky," they said. "We're taking our case to you, our readers, our friends, our neighbors."
The website urges readers to write to Colorado's representatives in the US Congress and the members of the board of the Scripps company "reminding them how much you value your newspaper".
It has also been publishing dozens of letters from readers describing what the newspaper - one of two dailies in Denver along with the - means to them.Denver Post
Steep declines in print advertising revenue and circulation as readers go online for news have left many US newspapers in a perilous position.
Many have turned to the internet in a bid to increase revenue but gains in online advertising revenue have not kept pace with losses on the print side.
s and unveiled plans last week to cut back home delivery to just three days a week - the first dailies in a major US city to make such a drastic cost-cutting move.The Detroit NewDetroit Free Press
, Ohio-based Scripps, which owns newspapers in 15 US markets and 10 television stations, reported steep third-quarter losses last month and cut another 400 jobs from its payroll.The Cincinnati
AFP