Disc Jockey School  -  DJ Trade School  -  FAME DJ School  -  Entertainment Workshops & Conventions
 
Be sure to attend one of our next live seminars at:
Educating yourself and your staff just got a whole lot easier!
Buy our classes on DVD you own them and grow your business.
Though we do not teach these techniques we refer those interested in this aspect of DJing to contact VOXBOX Studios at
www.voxboxstudios.com
Do you need marketing materials? Brochures, Letterhead, Postcards anything to help brand and market your business. Tired of looking like your competition? Click this link and go where the professionals in our industry go
Website Hosting for $29 per month or $249 per year if you use the following promo codes: FAME29 (for monthly) FAME249 (for yearly
)
BRUCE KESLAR My Friend and Colleague, you will be missed.
FAME remembers it was you who supported education.
and subscribers to Mobile Beat Magazine, and DJ Times
Call Us Today At:1-866-363-FAME
FAME DJ School is proud to offer discounts for all students who are members of the following endorsed associations or groups:
, , , , , NAME ADJA WEDJ.com Wedprosearch PRODJ.com
The New Cortex single Space mixer has been tested and reviewed by FAME staff members and we have found it to be a trustworthy, durable unit that can do anything a full size mixer did before.
4 assignable channels, two mic inputs, tone controls for each channel, headphones out all in a single space. Lightweight and easy to use. Did we mention under $200.00 If you are considering going smaller and lighter without losing anything then you should contact Cortex today. Robb Smith Owner FAME DJ School and Cortex User
 
What is the F.A.M.E. Disc Jockey School
 
We are a mobile disc jockey school that specializes in teaching and training of new mobile disc jockeys as well as continuing education of established DJ companies throughout the United States.
 
At the FAME DJ School, you can "Learn a Trade--  primarily on weekends, and weeknight classes and seminars available in your area.  Learn a trade that can have you working in weeks (not months), making great money, having fun, and meeting great new people.  Imagine, getting paid to PARTY!
 
That's what mobile disc jockeys do each and every week.  You do not have to quit your full time job as our industry works primarily on weekends.
 
If you have a personality and a desire to make , as much as, then consider the mobile disc jockey field.greatawesome money$200.00 per hour
 
for our current pricing. CLICK HERE
 
In a recent survey conducted at a National DJ convention.
80% of Mobile DJ’s are self trained.  
Over 90% want continuing education opportunities made available to them  
Almost all DJ’s spend money on updating their gear but nothing on education?
What you get after the course:
1.  A Certificate showing completion of the course.
2.  Job placement assistance for new DJs.
3.  Future phone and e-mail consultations at no charge.
Client Testimonials
Dear Robb,
 
I wanted to thank you! We have learned a great deal from both of those DVD's.  We specialize in weddings.  On Saturday night I used the MLT in the early stages of the reception with a heavy hitting slow song right after the twist contest.  My husband and I were both amazed at the results.  IT WORKS!  I know you already know that, but It works much better than we ever imagined.  When I was finished there were two people in the entire room sitting down. One was a teenage boy and the other was an elderly woman. 
 