Jump to: , navigation search
A and U.S. Attorney probe of trading in the shares of resulted in a widely publicized criminal case, which resulted in prison terms for media celebrity , ImClone chief executive officer and Stewart's broker at Merrill Lynch, . U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ImClone Systems Martha Stewart Samuel D. Waksal Peter Bacanovic
Contents
This section . Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and removed.does not any cite references or sources improve this article reliable sources Unverifiable
(December 2007)
ImClone's stock price dropped sharply at the end of when its drug , an experimental failed to get the expected (FDA) approval. It was later revealed by the that prior to the announcement (after the close of trading on ) of the FDA's decision numerous executives sold their stock. 2001 Erbitux monoclonal antibody Food and Drug Administration U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission December 28
Its founder, , was arrested in on charges for informing friends and family to sell their stock, and attempting to sell his own. His daughter, Aliza Waksal, sold $2.5 million in shares on . His father, Jack Waksal, sold $8.1 million in shares over the 27th and 28th. Company executives followed suit too. John B. Landes, the general counsel, sold $2.5 million in shares on December 6. Ronald A. Martell, the vice president for marketing and sales, sold $2.1 million in shares on December 11. Four other executives sold shares in the following weeks as well. Later, founder Waksal pleaded guilty to various charges, including , and on , , was sentenced to seven years and three months in prison. Samuel D. Waksal 2002 insider trading December 27 securities fraud June 10 2003
, the founder of , also became embroiled in the scandal after it emerged that she sold about $230,000 in ImClone shares on December 27, just a day before the announcement of FDA decision. Although Stewart maintained her innocence, she was found guilty and sentenced on , to five months in prison, five months of home confinement, and two years probation for lying about a stock sale, conspiracy, and obstruction of justice. Martha Stewart Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia July 16 2004
Ultimately a new clinical trial and FDA filing prepared by Imclone's partner ("German Merck" not to be confused with the US company of similar name) resulted in an FDA approval of Erbitux in 2004 for use in colon cancer. Merck KGaA
A Congressional hearing on improprieties at ImClone, held in October 2002, unveiled a culture of corruption dating back to 1986. This was the year that ImClone CEO Waksal first forged the signature of the company's general counsel John Landes (one of the three original employees of the company) for financial gain. Nonetheless, Landes defended Waksal's illegal actions at the hearings before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, portraying the forgery as "a good-faith misunderstanding," to which Representative James Greenwood replied "My children know better than that, Mr. Landes." Further questioning about this and subsequent forgeries on Waksal's part revealed that neither Landes, the chief legal officer of the company, or the company's outside directors reported Waksal's actions to proper authorities or made any moves to have Waksal removed as CEO. Instead, testimony revealed that they initiated their own internal investigation, which was never concluded. The decades-long tolerance for Waksal's fraud, starting from the company's earliest days, provoked Representative Peter Deutsch to refer to the ongoing misconduct as "wacky."
The FDA's February 2004 announcement of approval for use of Erbitux for treatment of colrectal cancer reported that conclusions were drawn from a trial involving 329 patients, of which 10.8% responded when Erbitux was used by itself, delaying tumor growth by 1.5 months. When used in conjunction with a standard treatment irinotecan, 22.9% of patients responded and tumor growth was delayed by approximately 4.1 months.
In September 2001, Bristol-Meyers Squibb committed $2 billion (including a $1 billion up-front cash payment) for less than 20% of ImClone due to what was called at the time the drug's "blockbuster" potential.
In January 2006, the company was put up for sale but failed to find any buyers, likely because Erbitux by that time faced significant competition in the medical marketplace. ImClone directors withdrew the sale of the company in mid-2006.
In April 2007, The Wall Street Journal reported that "Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and ImClone Systems Inc. said their cancer drug, Erbitux, failed to significantly prolong the lives of people with pancreatic cancer in a new study, marking yet another setback in the drug industry's efforts to find a better treatment for this deadly disease."
[] edit Indictment and SEC charges
Waksal was arrested , on charges of conspiring to commit . On , he pleaded guilty to charges of , , , and . June 12 2002 insider trading October 15 securities fraud bank fraud obstruction of justice perjury
On , he pleaded guilty to charges of and for avoiding $1.2 million in sales taxes on $15 million in artwork. The art included works by , , , and , purchased between June 2000 and October 2001. He did not pay the necessary taxes at the time of purchase, but did pay the taxes in fall 2002. March 3 2003 conspiracy wire fraud Mark Rothko Richard Serra Roy Lichtenstein Willem de Kooning
On , , Waksal was sentenced to seven years and three months in prison and ordered to pay more than $4 million in fines and back taxes, all the maximum punishments allowable under law. Waksal is not eligible for parole. He is currently serving time in the in as inmate number 53803-054. June 10 2003 Federal Correctional Institution, Otisville New York state
On , , a federal grand jury in indicted Stewart and her former broker, on nine criminal counts. The government alleged that, by selling when she did, Stewart avoided losses of $45,673. The charges included securities fraud, , and . Stewart plead not guilty, saying she had a standing order with Bacanovic to sell her shares if stock fell below $60. Stewart resigned as CEO and chairman of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia on the same day she was indicted, but remained on the company's board. June 4 2003 Manhattan Peter Bacanovic obstruction of justice conspiracy ImClone [1]
The day after her , Stewart took out a full-page advertisement in and launched a website with an open letter of defense "to my friends and loyal supporters." She said, "I want you to know that I am innocent and that I will fight to clear my name... The government's attempt to criminalize these actions makes no sense to me... I am confident I will be exonerated of these baseless charges." indictment USA Today
[] edit Trial
Stewart's trial was initially set for , , at the request of her lawyers who said they needed plenty of time to analyze the evidence. The trial eventually began on in New York City presided over by U.S. District Judge . During the trial, Stewart maintained her innocence. January 12 2004 January 20 Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum [2]
On , , Judge Cederbaum threw out the charge of securities fraud which could have led to up to 10 years in prison and a million dollar fine. The judge found that "no reasonable juror can find beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant lied for the purpose of influencing the market for the securities of her own company." February 27 2004 [3]
[] edit Verdict
The jury deliberated for three days following the five-week trial before reaching its verdict. On , , Stewart was found guilty by a of eight women and four men on all four remaining counts against her: conspiracy, obstruction of justice, and two counts of . She was not found guilty of one of the most publicized charges: having falsely claimed that there was an agreement to sell her shares when they fell to $60.00. The jury did find that Stewart lied and obstructed justice on other grounds, including her claim that she was reminded of the prior $60.00 agreement and urged to sell on that basis. March 5 2004 jury making false statements [4]
Following Stewart's conviction, a message was posted on her website, reading, in part, "I am obviously distressed by the jury's verdict but I continue to take comfort in knowing that I have the confidence and enduring support of my family and friends. I will appeal the verdict and continue to fight to clear my name. I believe in the fairness of the judicial system and remain confident that I will ultimately prevail."
[] edit Sentencing
On , a motion for a new trial was denied and sentencing was set for . Martha Stewart and Peter Bacanovic were each sentenced to five months in prison, five months of home confinement, and two years probation for lying about a stock sale, conspiracy, and obstruction of justice. Stewart was ordered to pay a $30,000 fine, while Bacanovic was fined $4,000. The judge stayed the sentence while they prepared their appeals. July 8 July 16 [5]
On , , accompanied by her lawyers and members of the board of directors of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Stewart held a press conference to announce her decision to begin serving her sentence as soon as possible while vowing to continue ahead with her appeal. The event was featured live on national television. On , she was ordered by US District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum to surrender by to begin her sentence. On , the announced that Stewart would serve her sentence at the federal prison camp in , denying her request to serve it at the in . She reported to early in the morning on . Alderson is a minimum security prison, the lowest level of security in the Bureau of Prisons. There are no fences, and inmates are generally free to walk around the compound unescorted. Stewart, who said her prison nickname was "M. Diddy", reportedly got along quite well with her fellow inmates and kept herself busy with assigned cleaning tasks. She was released on , at 12:30 AM. September 15 2004 [6] September 21 October 8 September 29 Federal Bureau of Prisons Alderson, West Virginia federal prison Danbury, Connecticut Alderson Federal Prison Camp October 8 [7] March 4 2005
After being released from Alderson, Stewart began to serve her home confinement at her estate in . During the confinement she was permitted to leave her property for up to 48 hours a week to conduct business, but was required to wear an electronic to monitor her location at all times. On , , a Federal Appeals court denied Stewart's appeal and upheld the jury's verdict. Bedford, New York ankle monitor January 6 2006
[] edit Repercussions and aftermath
On , , pulled from its and affiliates, after having moved the show during Stewart's trial from prime daytime timeslots into less desirable early-morning slots (e.g., 2:05am in New York); the show was distributed by another Viacom division, . On , Stewart resigned from the board of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. Stewart had already resigned from the boards of and . On , MSO announced that , was going into hiatus, with no announced date of return. March 8 2004 Viacom Martha Stewart Living CBS UPN King World Productions [] citation needed March 15 The New York Stock Exchange Revlon Cosmetics May 18 Martha Stewart Living[] citation needed
On , , Larry Stewart (no relation), a lab director who testified for the government against Martha Stewart, was charged with two counts of . Stock in jumped as much as 23 percent on the news. Larry Stewart was an expert witness about the ink on a broker's worksheet, testifying that the note about selling ImClone shares when it dropped below $60 was different from the rest of the ink on the document. The charges arose when Susan Fortunato, a USSS co-worker, complained that she had in fact done the analysis and that it had never been examined by Stewart. Although the jury at the perjury trial felt that Larry Stewart had taken unfair credit for the work done, it did not amount to perjury and he was found not guilty on , . The jury had trouble believing Fortunato, feeling that she had an axe to grind with Stewart. May 21 2004 United States Secret Service perjury Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia October 5 2004 [] citation needed
In October, 2005, Stewart was informed that due to her status as a in the United States, she was inadmissible for entry into Canada under the . Stewart had planned to attend the in . Within two days of the story's breaking, then Canadian granted Stewart a temporary resident permit, thereby allowing her to temporarily enter Canada.. convicted felon Immigration and Refugee Protection Act Windsor Pumpkin Regatta Nova Scotia Minister of Citizenship and Immigration Joe Volpe [] citation needed
In June, 2008, the , operational since 1 April, 2008 with new rules to safeguard British borders, refused to grant her a visa to enter , because of her criminal conviction for obstructing justice. She had been planning to speak at the on fashion and leisure industry matters. . UK Border Agency Great Britain Royal Academy [8]
In August, , the announced that it had agreed to settle the related civil case against Stewart. Under the settlement, Stewart agreed to a five-year bar from serving as a director, or as the CEO, CFO (or other officer roles in which she would be responsible for preparing, auditing, or disclosing financial results), of any public company. She also agreed to pay the maximum penalty of three times the losses she avoided, or $195,000. Bacanovic agreed to pay penalties totaling about $75,000, and was barred associating with a broker, dealer or investment adviser. 2006 Securities and Exchange Commission [9] [10]