Virtually Horses
A basic introduction
The horse's foot (and leg) are evolutionary remnants of a pawed, multi-toed ancestor.  A single finger\toe remains and the strong hoof wall is a modified fingernail.  The hoofwall is a strong thick growth of insensitive non-living horn that grows from the top of the hoof wall, and area known as the coronary band, down to the ground where it is worn down by use.  Without this wear the hoof wall will grow continually, becoming deformed and painful and making normal activity impossible for the horse. 
Within the hoofwall there are several bones of the foot, importantly the pedal bone or main foot bone.  The hoofwall is attached to the living tissue of the foot and its bones by two layers tissue known as laminae.  The layer closest to the inside of the hoofwall is insensitive while the inner one is sensitive, both layers are living tissue.
The bottom view of the foot is dominated by the frog - a large (hopefully) rubbery triangular structure which supports the inner bones, provides shock absorption and grip and the sole. Other features are usually obscured on a shod foot.
The back of the foot is known as the heel and here the heel shows two halves which extend some way into the structure of the foot.  These structures are most evident as the bulbs of the heel.  Imbalance of the foot through bad or late trimming can cause these structures to misalign or shear (break away from one another) a painful condition for the horse and one which takes some time to remedy.
Detailed Anatomy of the Horse's Foot
The corium is a modified vascular tissue that furnishes nutrition to the hoof. It is divided into five parts. One of the most important elements of the foot is the coronary band.The coronary band is the combined perioplic corium, coronary corium and coronary cushion. It is the primary growth and nutritional source for the bulk of the hoof wall. Injuries to this structure are serious and usually have a permanent effect. A hoof crack that results from serious injury to the coronary band might become a permanent affliction. No amount of notching, use of acrylic material, or stapling can heal some cracks that are the result of severe injury to the coronary band.
The periople, which functions much like the cuticle of a human fingernail, extends about three-fourths of an inch below the coronary band, except at the heels, where it caps the bulbs of the heels.
The stratum tectorium is a thin layer of horny scales that gives the glossy appearance to the outside of the wall below the periople. One of its tasks is to protect the wall from evaporation. (The hoof wall is approximately 25% water.) The middle layer composes the bulk of the hoof wall and is the most dense portion. The inner layer is the laminar layer that forms the epidermal laminae of the hoof. This layer is concave from side to side and bears about 600 primary laminae, each of which bears 100 or more secondary laminae on its surface. These laminae firmly attach the coffin bone to the hoof wall. These combined laminae bear much of the weight of the horse. The ground surface of the hoof wall is divided into the toe, quarters, and heel. At the heel, the wall turns forward to form the bars that converge toward one another. The sole, comprising most of the ground surface of the hoof, conforms to the inner curvature of the wall and to the angles formed by the wall and the bars. The structure of the sole is similar to that of the wall, with tubules running vertically as formed by papillae of the sole corium. These tubules curl near the ground surface, which accounts for the self-limiting growth of the sole and causes shedding. The sole is not designed to bear weight from the ground surface, but is designed to bear internal weight. The frog is a wedge-shaped mass that occupies the angles bounded by the bars and the sole. The frog is divided into the apex, which is the forward most point; the base, which is the rear portion; and the frog stay, which is the central ridge. The frog is 50% water and is quite soft. The walls, bars, and frog are the weight-bearing structure of the foot. Serving as a junction between the laminae of the wall and the tubules of the sole is the white line.