> > > Home Gaming Gear Gaming Keyboards Wolf King Warrior XXTREME USB Gaming Keyboard
Wolf King Warrior XXTREME USB Gaming Keyboard
Wolf King Warrior XXTREME USB Gaming Keyboard
Item #
Usually ships the same business day.
Average User Rating:
Enter Quantity:
Product Description
Wolf King does it again! No more disappointing second place finishes here. This one is mean with it unique design and functionality. With a lighted keypad option for non-stop, all hours of the night sessions, youl wonder why you didn get this bad boy sooner. With it one of a kind design, the Warrior enables the user to type with one hand, allowing your other to guzzle down your favorite energy drink. The new audio controls and Lockfeature allows for constant communication. Whether youe assembling your team for an attack, or just to talk some trash with your buddies, youl never be out of the loop. So what are you waiting for? Get the Wolf King XXtreme keyboard today, and put an end to those disappointing second place finishes!
Features:
All the important control keys for FPS and RPG Games are accessible with minimal changing of hand position.
Unique hybrid design combines the patented WARRIOR 52 key game pad with an additional 47 WERTYkeys and controls enabling broad game compatibility and single-handed text entry.
Ergonomic WARRIOR game pad area features innovative vertical space bar enlarged & aligned ASDlayout, Dual trland custom oversized keys to maximize comfort, increase control and accommodate different user hand sizes.
Audio controls and lockkey for convenient communication.
lue Moonbacklight can be turned on or off.
2 Elevation risers for optimal height adjustment.
Compact size for convenient transport. Saves desktop space to allow for more efficient mouse positioning.
Top surface features Piano Black finish with Matte side coating.
Flexible 3-layer silicon membrane for extremely quiet use.
Specially weighted key press mechanism
Keyboard lifespan rated at over 10 million keystrokes.
2 USB ports for convenient desktop attachment of additional USB devices.
USB 2.0 connector, plug & play. No drivers required.
Customer Images