 
Equine
Karbo Flour/Pellets, Epic II CL or Karbo Combo has proven to be very effective in field studies of Colic.
Colic - The Number 1 Killer of Horses
Colic, by far, is the number one killer of horses. Compared to other deadly conditions, cases associated with colic experience the highest fatality rate.
The basic diagnosis generally associated with colic is abdominal and spasmodic pain within the intestine. It is an infection of the digestive system. Some of the most common behaviors by horses suffering from colic can include the following:
Violently pawing at the ground or kicking
Profuse sweating
Rolling or lying on their backs
Sitting on haunches like a dog
Extreme high or low temperature
Elevated heart or respiration rate
The symptoms of colic are the same no matter what the cause. However, it is important to properly diagnose the animal before trying to treat it without any veterinary assistance, which could lead to additional problems for the infected horse.
Current Therapies
The use of Karbo Combo, in field studies, has proven very effective in resolving the symptoms of Colic.
Karbo Combo consists of encapsulated enzymes, vitamins, bacteria, and large numbers of mannan and glucan oligosaccharides. In addition, the formula also contains glycocomponents necessary for tying up and neutralizing various toxins.
The objective of Karbo Combo is to attach and bind to the surface lectins of pathogenic viruses, bacteria, protozoa, and toxins, therefore rendering them incapable of colonization and reproduction. The stimulation and modulation of the complex immune system by this formulation is not clearly understood at this time.
Practical Solutions
The following will explain some practical solutions to many animal life threatening situations using natural, drug-free, food supplements.
The many pains and discomforts that our animals endure can, to a great extent, be reduced to a more tolerable state.
Colic, the largest killer of equines, is an infection of the bowel. Rather than injecting drugs to numb the animal and doing nothing to relieve the problem does not seem practical. In this situation, it is much better to tie up the organisms involved, bind up toxins being produced in the bowel, increase peristalsis, and move the offending material and toxins out of the system.
This can be accomplished with Karbo Combo or Epic II CL. In equines with recurrent colic symptoms, Karbo Combo, at a maintenance level of 1/2 ounce daily per 1000 lb. body weight, has been very successful in resloving the symptoms of this terrible disease.
Equine