Horse Services
Tying Up
During or after work horse steps short in hind limbs, giving appearance of stiffness, only sign may be that horse will not stretch out during training or when competing, horses with these signs normally on high grain diet and only show signs when worked after a day or more of rest.Signs
Horses worked at irregular intervals and fed high grain diets are most susceptible  to tying-up. Ingested grain converted to glycogen, which is stored in muscles and elsewhere, if horse rested for 1-2 days while on a high-grain diet, large quantities of glycogen are stored in muscles, glycogen is used by muscles as a source of energy when work is being done. Some horses not on high-grain diets tie up because they are hypersensitive to lactic  acid or because their particular metabolism does not cope with it efficiently.Causes
Consult your veterinarian who can confirm the condition. Taking a blood sample  for certain serum enzyme. Horses susceptible to frequent tying-up should have low  level grain diet, normally grain level in diet should be in proportion to amount  of work done, use of vitamin E and selenium as preventive measure.Treatment
Tumors
Tumors of the nasal cavity and sinuses are not uncommon in horses. Clear or purulent mucus, sometimes tinged with blood, from one nostril,  abnormal sound coming from nostril especially when horse worked, may be no movement of air in or out of nostril, may be swelling of one side of nasal cavity with watery and bulging eye.
Signs
Unknown.Cause
Contact your veterinarian who can confirm diagnosis with endoscope and X-ray examination.Treatment
, courtesy http://www.equilife.co.ukThe information on horserides.org is for educational purposes only and should not  be considered veterinarian/medical advice. It is not meant to replace the advice of your veterinarian who cares for your horse.
hoof thrush
Thrush
is an infection located in the grooves on either side of the frog. Sometimes the frog is involved.
Thrush
Foul smelling black tarry discharge can be seen in grooves on either side  of the frog. Horse may be lame if sensitive tissues in depths of grooves are involved.Signs
Poor hoof care, lack of attention to daily cleaning and hoof trimming at time of shoeing. Damp dirty stable conditions where horse stands in bedding soaked with urine and manure. Standing in mud or in damp dirty places for long periods.Causes
Trim away any excess or infected frog, clean out discharge from grooves, if sensitive tissues involved, horse will flinch or pull foot away when you dig deeply into grooves. Contact your veterinarian, as antibiotics and tetanus  injections may be indicated. Prevention of , daily hoof and stable cleaning are very important.Treatment
thrush
Thoroughpin
A soft swelling on both sides of the hock about the level of the point of the hock. Distention is due to accumulation of synovia (joint oil) caused by  sprain of the tendons by over exertion, such as a kick. , courtesy http://www.gutenberg.org
Cause
Contact your veterinarian. In advanced cases firing gives best results.  Aspirating the synovia from the sac reduces the swelling, it may refill. Bandage with pressureTreatment
thoroughpin