Main article: Equine nutrition
A horse or pony needs approximately 1.5% to 2.5% of its body weight in food per day. This may include forages such as or , and concentrates such as or commercially prepared . Like people, some horses are "" and prone to , while others are "" and need a great deal of food just to maintain a slim build. The average riding horse weighs roughly 1000 pounds, but the weight of a horse can be more closely estimated using a weight tape, which can be purchased from a feed store or tack shop. grass hay grain pelleted feeds easy keepers obesity hard keepers
Best practice is to feed horses two or three times daily, unless they are on full time pasture. Fresh, clean should be provided free choice at all times, unless there is a specific reason to limit water intake for a short period of time. water
a sweet feed mix with added vitamins
A horse that is not ridden daily or subjected to other stressors can maintain adequate nutrition on pasture or hay alone, with adequate water (10-12 gallons per day minimum) and free access to a block or loose salt. However, horses and ponies in regular work often need a ration of both forage and concentrates. salt
Horses that are fed improperly may develop or , particularly if fed spoiled feed, subjected to excessive feed, or a too-abrupt change of feed. Young horses who are improperly fed may develop growth disorders due to an imbalance of nutrients. colic laminitis
Main article: Horse grooming
An assortment of brushes and other tools are used to groom a horse
Horses groomed regularly have healthier and more attractive coats. Many horse management handbooks recommend a horse daily, though for the average modern horse owner, this is not always possible. However, a horse should always be groomed before being ridden to avoid chafing and rubbing of dirt and other material, which can cause sores on the animal and also grind dirt into . Grooming also allows the horse handler to check for injuries and is a good way to gain the trust of the animal. grooming horse tack [6]
Proper basic grooming of a horse is a multi-step process involving several simple tools:
Curry: Usually a round tool with short teeth made of plastic or stiff rubber, used to loosen dirt, hair, and other detritus, plus stimulate the skin to produce natural oils.
Dandy brush: A stiff-bristled, "dandy" brush is used to remove the dirt, hair and other material stirred up by the curry. The best quality dandy brushes are made of stiff natural bristles such as rice stems, plastic-bristled dandy brushes are more common.
Body brush: A soft-bristled "body" brush removes finer particles and dust. Some natural body brushes are made of boar bristles, like human hairbrushes, others are made of soft synthetic fibers.
Grooming rag or towel: A terrycloth towel or other type of cloth. Sometimes called a "stable rubber."
Mane brush or comb: Horses with short, pulled manes have their manes combed with a wide-toothed plastic or metal comb. Horse tails and long manes many be finger-combed or are brushed with either a dandy brush, body brush, or a suitable human hairbrush.
Hoof pick: All four feet of the horse need to be cleaned out. See "Hoof care and shoeing,"below.
In special weather conditions, a metal shedding blade with short, dull teeth is used to remove loose winter hair. Metal grooming tools used on and show may also be too harsh to use on a horse. sheep cattle
In the summer, fly spray is often applied to the horse after grooming.
Sweat or Water Scraper: A metal or plastic tool to remove excess liquid from a horse's coat.
Sometimes, though not always, horses are clipped with scissors or, preferably, electric clippers. The most common areas are a short "bridle path" just behind the ears, where a few inches of mane is removed to help the bridle lay more neatly; and the , where extra hair can collect undesired amounts of mud and dirt. For and exhibition purposes, additional clipping may be done. fetlocks horse show
Beyond the basic equipment, there are literally thousands of grooming tools on the market, from multiple designs on the basic brushes, available in many colors, to specialized tools for braiding manes, polishing hooves and clipping loose hair. There are also grooming products for horses ranging from moisturizing hair dressings to glitter gel and hoof polish.
Horses can be bathed by being wet down with a garden hose, but they do not require bathing and many horses live their entire lives without a bath. Either horse or human shampoo may be safely used on a horse, if thoroughly rinsed out, and cream rinses or hair conditioners, similar to those used by humans, are often used on show horses. Too-frequent shampooing can strip the hair coat of natural oils and cause it to dry out. A well-groomed, clean horse can be kept clean by wearing a or horse sheet. horse blanket [7]
A class that considers quality of grooming for as much as 40% of the total score is called . horse show showmanship
[] edit Hoof care and shoeing
Main articles: , , , and Horse hoof farrier horseshoe Barefoot horses
Horses require routine hoof care
Barefoot hoof, from below. Details: heel perioplium (1), bulb (2), frog (3), central groove (4), collateral groove (5), heel (6), bar (7), seat of corn (8), pigmented walls (external layer) (9), water line (inner layer) (10), white line (11), apex of frog (12), sole (13), toe (14), how to measure width (15), quarter (16), how to measure length (17)
The hooves of a horse or pony are cleaned by being picked out with a hoof pick to remove any stones, mud and dirt and to check that the shoes (if worn) are in good condition. Keeping feet clean and dry wherever possible helps prevent both lameness as well as hoof diseases such as thrush (a hoof fungus). The feet should be cleaned every time the horse is ridden, and if the horse is not ridden, it is still best practice to check and clean feet frequently. Daily cleaning is recommended in many management books, but in practical terms, a weekly hoof check of healthy horses at rest is often sufficient during good weather.
Use of hoof oils, dressings, or other topical treatments varies by region, climate, and the needs of the individual horse. Many horses have healthy feet their entire lives without need for any type of hoof dressing. While some horses may have circumstances where a topical hoof treatment is of benefit, improper use of dressings can also create hoof problems, or make a situation worse instead of better. Thus, there is no universal set of guidelines suitable for all horses in all parts of the world. Farriers and veterinarians in a horse owner's local area can provide advice on the use and misuse of topical hoof dressings, offering suggestions tailored for the needs of the individual horse.
Horses and ponies require routine hoof care by a professional every 6 to 8 weeks, depending on the animal, the work it performs and, in some areas, weather conditions. Hooves usually grow faster in the spring and fall than in summer or winter. They also appear to grow faster in warm, moist weather than in cold or dry weather. In damp climates, the hooves tend to spread out more and wear down less than in dry climates, though more lush, growing forage may also be a factor. Thus, a horse kept in a climate such as that of may need to have its feet trimmed more frequently than a horse kept in a drier climate such as , in the southwestern . farrier Ireland Arizona United States
All domesticated horses need regular hoof trims, regardless of use. Horses in the wild do not need hoof trims because they travel as much as 50 miles (80 km) a day in dry or semi-arid grassland in search of forage, a process that wears their feet naturally. Domestic horses in light use are not subjected to such severe living conditions and hence their feet grow faster than they can be worn down. Without regular trimming, their feet can get too long, eventually splitting, chipping and cracking, which can lead to lameness.
On the other hand, horses subjected to hard work may need for additional protection. Some advocates of the movement maintain that proper management may reduce or eliminate the need for shoes, but certain activities, such as and work, create unnatural levels of stress and will wear down hooves faster than they would in nature. Thus, some types of working horses almost always require some form of hoof protection. horseshoes barefoot horse horse racing police horse
The cost of farrier work varies widely, depending on the part of the world, the type of horse to be trimmed or shod, and any special issues with the horse's foot that may require more complex care. The cost of a trim is roughly half to one-third that of the cost of a set of shoes, and professional farriers are typically paid at a level commeasurate with other skilled labourers in an area, such as plumbers or electricians, though farriers charge by the horse rather than by the hour.
In the , It is illegal for anyone else other than a registered farrier to shoe or trim a horse's feet. The farrier should have any one of the following qualifications, the FWCF being the most highly skilled: United Kingdom
DipWCF (Diploma of the Worshipful Company of Farriers)
AWCF (Associateship of the Worshipful Company of Farriers)
FWCF (Fellowship of the Worshipful Company of Farriers)
In the , there are no legal restrictions on who may do farrier work. However, trained and qualified farriers usually belong to professional organizations such as: the AFA (), which certifies farriers as Intern, Journeyman, and Certified Farrier. USA American Farrier's Association
[] edit Leg care and bandaging
See also: , , and Polo wraps Shipping bandage bell boots
Leg bandage
The legs of a horse require routine observation for lacerations or swelling. Everyday care involves brushing the legs with a brush to remove dirt and mud. A currycomb is generally not used below the knees. It is common even for pleasure horses to have excess hair trimmed from the fetlock to prevent excess accumulation of mud and moisture. When working, many riders wrap the horse's legs with protective boots or bandages to prevent injury. After a ride, it is common for a rider or groom to hose off the legs of a horse to remove dirt and to ease any minor inflammation to the tendons and ligaments. Liniment may also be applied as a preventative measure to minimize stiffness and ease any minor strain. If the horse has been overworked, injured, or is to be hauled, a standing bandage or shipping boot may be placed on the horse's legs for protection, to hold a wound dressing, or to provide support.
Wrapping legs requires care and skill. A too loose bandage will fall off, potentially tangling in the horse's feet and causing panic or injury. A too tight bandage can itself cause injury to tendons and ligaments and even circulation problems. Commercial boots for riding or shipping are usually easy to apply if purchased in the correct size, as they attach with a hook and loop fastening, or, less often, with adjustable buckles. Leg bandages require more attention. A bandage is usually applied over a protective padding of roll cotton or a premade quilted pad. The bandage is started on the outside of the leg, in the middle of the cannon bone, then wrapped down to either the fetlock or the hoof, depending on the purpose for which is is used, then back up to just under the knee, then back to the center of the cannon just above the starting point, ending on the outside of the leg. Most of the time, a left leg is wrapped in a counter-clockwise direction, and a right leg wrapped in a clockwise direction, starting on the outside, moving front to back. Legs may be bandaged with either disposable stretchable wrap that sticks to itself, or with washable fleece or cotton wraps that are reusable and fasten at the ends with a hook and loop closure. Bandages may also be taped with medical tape to help them stay on. [8] [9]
Main article: veterinary medicine
There are many disorders that affect horses, including , , and internal . Horses also can develop various that can be prevented by routine . It is sensible to register a horse or pony with a local , in case of emergency. The veterinary practice will keep a record of the owner's details and where the horse or pony is kept, and any medical details. It is considered best practice for a horse to have an annual checkup, usually in the spring. Some practitioners recommend biannual checkups, in the spring and fall. colic laminitis parasites infectious diseases vaccination equine veterinarian
[] edit Vaccinations and travel requirements
Vaccinating a horse against encephalitis, Idaho, 1940
Horses and ponies need annual vaccinations to protect against any number of sicknesses, though the precise vaccines required varies depending on the part of the world where the horse lives and the uses to which the animal is put. In most nations, equine and shots are commonly given, and in many places, various forms of are a concern, including . Many additional vaccines may be needed, depending on local conditions. influenza tetanus Equine Encephalitis West Nile Virus [10]
As a general rule, a horse or pony that has never had a particular vaccination will be given an initial vaccination and then a booster a few weeks later, then normally once a year after that. Animals kept in a public boarding facility, those shipped for breeding and those frequently on the show circuit often require more vaccinations than horses that are not exposed to outside animals and who do not travel.
Some type of veterinary certificate or proof of vaccination is often required for horses to travel or compete, especially when crossing state, provincial, or international boundaries.
In the USA, a certificate stating that the horse has a negative "Coggins" test must be in the vehicle carrying the horse when crossing state lines. This certificate, authorized by a veterinarian, certifies that the horse has been tested with a recent period of time and does not have an incurable disease called (EIA). equine infectious anemia [11]
[] edit First-aid kit
A well-stocked equine (and human) first-aid kit should be kept in a place where it is easily accessed. Any used or out-of-date items should be replaced as soon as possible. However, other than for minor injuries, a veterinarian should be consulted before treating a sick or injured animal.
The basic items any equine first-aid kit should include are: [12]
Tools & Diagnostic Equipment
(to use as lubrication for ) Petroleum jelly thermometer
(for listening to heartbeat, respiration and, in the case of suspected colic, gut sounds) Pulse and respiration can be determined without a stethoscope. Gut sounds can be heard by putting one's ear to the horse's side, but doing so increases the risk of being kicked by the horse. Stethoscope
Sharp, clean , reserved for first aid kit only scissors
Wire cutters (for freeing a tangled horse) or equivalent such as a fencing tool or , though these objects are often kept in a well-organized barn, an extra set in a first-aid kit is helpful for major emergencies lineman's pliers
Flashlight and extra batteries. (for nighttime emergencies or to add a light source in a shadowed area)
Cleaning supplies
Clean bucket, reserved for first-aid kit only, for washing out wounds
Clean sponge, reserved for first-aid kit only
Gauze (for cleaning wounds)
Cotton balls or sheet cotton for absorbing liquids, particularly good for dipping into liquid products and then squeezing or dabbing the liquid onto a wound (Cotton used to clean a wound may leave fibers in the injury, gauze is a better product if the wound must be touched)
(without needle), for cleaning wounds. (Using the syringe to wash out a wound is preferable to cleaning it with cotton or gauze.) An old syringe, cleaned, works fine for this. hypodermic syringe
Sterile , which is used to clean wounds. solution may be used for this purpose. Saline solution Contact lens
Latex/medical gloves, unused
Disposable rags or paper towels
Bandages and other forms of protection
Absorbent padding, such as roll cotton or a set of cotton leg wraps (keep a clean set sealed in a plastic bag)
to be used as wound dressing underneath bandages Gauze
Sterile wound dressing, such as telfa pads; large sizes of those intended for humans work well.
Leg Bandages - stable bandages or rolls of self-adhering vet wrap
Adhesive tape for keeping bandages in place
Poultice boot, for hoof injuries. (A can be used for this purpose, though a medical boot is usually easier to put on and take off) hoof boot
Over the counter medications