San Diego, California
Our purpose:
THE PURPOSE OF THE CLUB SHALL BE TO ENCOURAGE THE STUDY OF MINERALOGY AND THE LAPIDARY ARTS, ALSO TO PROMOTE THE KNOWLEDGE AND PRACTICE OF COLLECTING ROCKS AND MINERALS, AND THE CUTTING AND POLISHING OF GEMSTONES.
We are a family oriented organization open to everyone interested in the creation of gems and jewelry, minerals, camping, rockhounding, and general good fellowship. A wide variety of interests and activities come together under the banner.CONVAIR ROCKHOUND ASSOCIATION, INC.
Club activities include:
Field trips, mainly with camping in scenic desert locations, are held monthly during the fall, winter and spring. Many types of gemstones, minerals and fossils are collected by day, followed by relaxation around the campfire in the evening.
Monthly general meetings include presentations from experts in the fields of gemology, mineralogy, jewelry making and related fields.
Cutting and polishing gemstones in our fully equipped workshop. There are basic and advanced courses taught by qualified instructors, who are always available for advice after the course are completed. The Club has a special group for Juniors, 8 to 12 years of age. Basic lapidary and other arts are taught.
Jewelry making, including silversmithing, metal casting and gem faceting are also taught.
Shows displaying gems, jewelry, carvings and other items made by members and the various mineral and fossil collections of members are hosted by the Club from time to time.
A newsletter, the , is published monthly (except July and August), reporting news and activities of the Club. Many articles and helpful hits of interest to rockhounds are included. TEKTITE
After sampling the many different areas of interest, many members specialize in one or more areas. Some may concentrate on specific materials such as opal, petrified wood, fire agate or a specific activity such as carving sculptures in gemstone material, faceting gemstones, intarsia, stone sphere making, casting and silversmithing jewelry, beading and collecting minerals, fossils, geodes or other things. Many read, study or take courses in gemology, geology, paleontology, etc.
   If you are interested in any of these, you are invited to attend our monthly meetings and get to know us and the activities we all enjoy. The monthly meetings are held in the Tierrasanta Recreation Center, 11202 Clairemont Mesa Blvd., on the first Tuesday of each month, September through June, at 6:30 PM.
 Click on map for full page view
CRA Meeting Site