For Those Who Dare To Hear The Truth!
A blog showing research into world religions and religious cults. Sociology of religion rather than Christian apologetics. Just a college student on summer vacation...
Summary
The charismatic group is generally defined by the psychological elements of its members. They "(1) have a shared belief system, (2) sustain a high level of social cohesiveness, (3) are strongly influenced by the group's behavioral norms, and (4) impute charismatic (or sometimes divine) power to the group or its leadership" (Galanter 4).
Wednesday, February 09, 2005
The Purpose Driven Life
OK, I've just received my page on Rick Warren's "The Purpose Driven Life" back. Figured I'd post it, I just like what it says. Titled "Rick Warren's Assumptions" Rick Warren, in "The Purpose Driven Life", makes the argument that there is no accident in the broader view of events. He presents God as the overseer of everything that occurs in the world, and that everything has been planned prior to its occurring. God is assumed to preside over every event, including the premarital relations that lead to a child. Every mistake made by every human is apparently only leading to the master plan. His God is an omnipotent and omniscient God, possibly controlling the future to his desire. These assumptions make no sense to me. He seems to see no chance or random event ever occurring in the eyes of God. He says that "God left no detail to chance", showing a predestination before one is born; where, when and how one is born is supposedly planned by God for his purpose. I feel that God has bestowed upon the world a free choice, allowing for a future that cannot be forecast. Even if God transcends time, he does not control the events of today, but only sees what they will lead to in the end. If God were in control of every event and there is no mishap, there are many events throughout time that only show a mean, and possibly evil, God. God allows chance, while the fabric of existence is still held together by the divine.
posted by Awkward Socks at 3:59 PM