Jump to: , navigation search
The is one of the premier and shows in the world. The event takes place annually in late January and February at approximately 40 to 49 different locations across the city of . Most of the shows are open to the public, except for certain trade shows where you will need to register with your business license. There is not one single location for gems, minerals and fossils, but rather dealers occupy dozens of locations across the city: many big hotels and most motels are occupied for this occasion, with professionals displaying their specimens in such locations as hotel bedrooms, lobbies, tents, and lawns. The premier event of the Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase is the produced by the Tucson Gem and Mineral Society. This show has been held annually since 1955 and is now occupies 181,000 square feet (16,800 m) of the . All of the shows have attendees from all across the world which includes the general public, experts, beginning collectors, museum employees, dealers, retailers, and researchers. Many and , such as the and the have displayed at the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM. The Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM and all of these other different bring in over 110 million dollars to the local Tucson economy.Tucson Gem, Mineral & Fossil Showcase gem mineral Tucson, Arizona Tucson Gem & Mineral Show TM2 Tucson Convention Center museums universities Smithsonian Institution Sorbonne shows
The Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM is held at the Tucson Convention Center starting on the second Thursday of February. The first Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM was held in an elementary school in 1955 and shortly there after moved to a at the Tucson Fair Grounds. Then in 1973 they moved into the Tucson Community Center. They occupied the North Exhibit Hall first, then expanded into the Arena and upper Arena concourse. After the completion of the new facility in 1990, which is now called the Tucson Convention Center, the Tucson Gem and Mineral Show TM now occupies the Arena, Exhibition Halls A-B-C, Galleria and Ballrooms. quonset hut