 
Wine Trivia
The Irish believe that fairies are extremely fond of good wine. The proof of the assertion is that in the olden days royalty would leave a keg of wine out for them at night. Sure enough, it was always gone in the morning. - Irish Folklore
The University of Pennsylvania has found that the Chinese may have been fermenting alcoholic beverages and wine as early as 6000 B.C.  This is due to evidence of tartaric acid that has been found on shards of Chinese pottery.  Tartaric acid is an organic acid that is found in wine.
Drawing of a cylinder seal impression on a jar stopper bearing the name of Khasekhemwy, a Dynasty 2 pharoah. It shows a grapevine trained to run along a trellis or arbor.
In Ancient Egypt, the poor man's drink was beer. The rich drank wine. Sweet or dry white and red wines were produced. First pressing of the best quality juice was by workers stomping on them with their feet. Second pressings of lower quality juice was from putting grapes, pips and stems in cloth and twisting to extract the juice. Juices were put into jars and allowed to ferment. Before the use of corks, jars were closed with a wad of leaves and mud. A small hole was left until secondary fermentation took place, and then that hole was plugged. Jars were labelled with the quality, year and vineyard and allowed to age. Egyptians also made wine from dates, pomegranates and palm sap.
The Ancient Greeks grew grapes and olives as their main source of wealth. Vines were grown on terraces cut into the hillside to get the maximum sunlight. Ripe grapes were harvested in September and taken to a treading floor made of wood or mortar which sloped down to an outlet. As workers trod the grapes, juice ran into a vat sunk into the ground. It was left to ferment in clay vats lined with pitch or resin. The vats were stored in cool cellars for six months, and then the wine was poured into large amphorae for ease of transport. Proof of large scale export of wine was found in sunken wrecks of merchant ships laden with amphorae for Greek colonies in southern Italy or off the Black Sea.
Barges were used to transport wine in barrels from vineyards in France and Germany to ships carrying the wine to all regions of the vast Ancient Roman Empire. Italian wine was also enjoyed throughout the Roman Empire.
Foot treading of grapes is still used in producing a small quantity of the best port wines.
In ancient Babylon, the bride's father would supply his son-in-law with all the mead (fermented honey beverage) he could drink for a month after the wedding. Because their calendar was lunar or moon-based, this period of free mead was called the "honey month," or what we now call the "honeymoon."
Before thermometers were invented, brewers would dip a thumb or finger into the liquid to determine the ideal temperature, neither too hot nor too cold, for adding yeast. From this we get the phrase "rule of thumb."
Grapes are not grown from seeds because they start out as blossoms that are fertilized from the pollen of another vine.  If the vine is a different grape type, then the seed will be the “offspring” of both vines.  Cuttings are more predictable when you are trying to get the same type of grape each time you harvest.The seeds and skin of the grape contain tannins. 
Tannin is a bitter tasting substance that causes the “dry mouth” feeling associated with some red wines. 
1 grape cluster = 1 glass 75 grapes = 1 cluster 4 clusters = 1 bottle 40 clusters = 1 vine 1 vine = 10 bottles 1200 clusters = 1 barrel 1 barrel = 60 gallons 60 gallons = 25 cases 30 vines = 1 barrel 400 vines = 1 acre 1 acre = 5 tons 5 tons = 332 cases
There are about 400 species of oak, though only about 20 are used in making oak barrels. Of the trees that are used, only 5% is suitable for making high grade wine barrels. The average age of a French oak tree harvested for use in wine barrels is 170 years!
 
#15 - 3033 King George Highway, South Surrey, BC V4P 1B8 Tel: 604 535 7200 Make award winning beer & wine in South Surrey / White Rock
 