inquire
 
The concept of an equine hoof boot is not new -- EasyCare has been manufacturing, testing and actively using hoof boots in extreme situations since the early 1970’s. Over the last thirty years, we’ve seen many hoof boots come and go, and we’ve used and studied them as they arrived. Some of these products have potential and very positive design features, while others don’t. The Boa Horse Boot™ is the first horse boot to use materials and technology previously found only in modern athletic shoes and snowboard boots. Modern materials and manufacturing techniques, combined with the unique Boa Lacing System™, make the Boa Horse Boot™ the most advanced horse boot ever.
Boa Horse Boot Features
A new “” – the protective cap which covers the Boa dial mechanism now screws on, like a threaded bottle cap.dial-shield
There is now a of the boot, similar to those found on athletic tennis shoes.pull-tab at the heel
have been added to the sole of the boot.Three small drain holes
The optional (the two larger sizes are 7 mm neoprene), and a “” has been added to better secure the Gaiter in the boot.Boa Gaiters now come in three sizeshoof-plate
The Boa Horse Boot™ has been developed, tested and manufactured to improve upon the equine hoof boot concept. EasyCare’s successful history in manufacturing and using hoof boots has given us the experience and knowledge needed to develop the most complete equine hoof boot on the market. The Boa Horse Boot™ is the result.
The Boa Horse Boot™ has been developed with three main objectives:
. The Boa Horse Boot™ provides excellent hoof protection for both occasional and everyday riding for the barefoot horse, but can also be used in the correction and treatment of founder, navicular disease, punctures, abscesses, bruises, contracted heels and other impact­caused injuries. It also provides protection during trailering, breeding and a quick fix for the occasional lost shoe.Unlimited Uses
. The Boa Horse Boot™ has been designed to protect and remain on the hoof during aggressive riding conditions. The Boa Horse Boot™ provides protection to the frog, sole, hoof wall, hairline and bulb area.Ultimate Protection & Retention
. Many of the current hoof boots require tools and strength during application and removal. The Boa Lacing System™ is used on the Boa Horse Boot™ as the primary closure system. The Boa Lacing System™ allows the Boa Horse Boot™ to open large enough to accommodate the wide base of a hoof, allowing for quick application without strength or force. After the hoof is placed in the Boa Horse Boot™, the Boa Lacing System™ quickly tightens with a turn of the dial. Removing the Boa Horse Boot™ is simple: pull the dial, the lace tension releases and the Boa Horse Boot™ is easily slipped off the hoof.Quick and Easy Application
The outside tread pattern of the Boa Horse Boot™ has been designed for traction, yet allows the hoof and lower leg to move after contact with the ground surface. There is a fine line between traction and aggressive traction. Boots or shoes with aggressive traction don’t allow movement of the hoof and lower leg, causing unneeded lower limb stress and injuries. The Boa Horse Boot™ has been designed to provide traction similar to the natural barefoot hoof. Boa Horse Boots™ provide traction without injuries.
The Boa Lacing System™ makes Boa Horse Boots™ easy to put on and take off, and micro adjustments inherent to the closure allow the boot to fit snugly to almost any hoof. Boa Horse Boots™ fit snugly around the hoof and above the hairline without joint interference during motion.
Although Boa Horse Boots™ have many veterinary and medical uses, they should not be used to hold medications or invasive substances. Many of the medicines used to treat hoof ailments will react adversely with Boa Horse Boot™ leathers and the urethane sole.
Overview and Changes for 2005
Easyboot Epics Horse Boot Features
In 1970 when Dr. Neel Glass, a nuclear physicist at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratories, found his horse suffering from navicular disease, he began work on an idea that would prove to be a revolution in hoof care for horses. He developed the tough, durable polyurethane Easyboot. The boot is now used for correction and treatment of founder, navicular, nail punctures, abscesses, bruises, contracted heels and other impact caused injuries. It provides excellent hoof protection for both occasional and long distance riding and gives a secure fit for traction on rocks, pavement, snow and ice. Most endurance riders use Easyboots as a shoeing alternative, protection over shoes or as a spare tire when a horse loses a shoe.
The Easyboot has been the industry’s leading horse boot for the last thirty years. During this time period, Easyboots have been used to win endurance races, complete mounted treks from 2,000-18,000 miles in length, provide traction to mounted police units, treat many hoof problems and ride a horse home after a lost shoe. Although the Easyboot concept has continued to improve each year, in 2005 we introduced several enhancements which incorporate testing and feedback from horsemen all over the world.
Changes in technology nearly always occur after the original release of an item – think of the rapid evolution of most electronic toys we own. These changes do not mean you must give up your old boots--any generation Easyboot is a great Easyboot! We will continue to support, repair or replace any boots from the entire EasyCare horse boot line as set out in the EasyCare Horse Boot Return Policy.
Using Easyboots is a natural way to provide hoof protection, traction, treatment, cushioning and correction while allowing the horse to go barefoot at all other times. They fit snugly to the hoof, are lighter and last many times longer than standard steel plates. Properly fitted, they stay on as well as nailed-on shoes with an important advantage – if an Easyboot is pulled off, the rider can put it right back on.
The changes you will recognize in the 2005 generation Easyboot and the Easyboot Epic:
The optional Easyboot Gaiter attachment is the largest change for 2005. This new gaiter attachment is an accessory that can be added to all boots manufactured after January 2005. The Easyboot Gaiter is ideal for the barefoot horse, muddy conditions or for a horse who is difficult to keep booted. The Easyboot Gaiter can be purchased as an accessory for the Easyboot, or comes packaged and assembled on the Easyboot Epic.
The two vertical "folds" or gussets on the front of the boot (adjacent to the entry/exit holes for the cable) are now open, allowing the front and sides of the boot to flex for easier installation on the hoof and a better fit.
The side clips are now integrated with the inside back strap. Side clip covers, to be optionally snapped over the face of the "teeth," are also included with each boot. When used, these covers reduce the aggressiveness of the Easyboot’s attachment to the hoof wall. This would be suitable when the hardness (moisture content) of your horse’s hoof wall is less than optimum.
The Easyboot buckle is now drilled to accept a locking pin. The buckle can now be locked into place after the boot is installed.
The inside-sole "nubs" are gone, allowing a more natural contact of the hoof’s sole to the surface of the boot.
The front buckle rivets are now recessed and will not touch the hoof wall.
Easyboot sizing has been fine-tuned. Be sure to measure the hoof and verify sizing from the new chart, before purchasing a 2005 Easyboot. Even if your horse has always worn a particular size in the past, this is an important step to take in ensuring a perfect fit.
close
David MacDonald obtained his Diploma in Horseshoeing in Oklahoma, USA, under the tutorage of leading equine veterinarian and master farrier Mr. Jack Roth. Mr. Roth was also a farrier to the United States Army for many years. Under Jack's guidance David learnt the importance of knowing the anatomy of the lower limbs of horses and the importance of proper foot care. In his profession as a farrier, David has dealt with owners of horses in all disciplines and their frustration with various hoof problems that often lead to pasture or stable confinement, or, at worst, premature retirement. Problems include:
Old Mac's Horse Boot Features
Brittle hooves