Pilot Information
Free Wi-Fi
Travelers wishing to send e-mail, surf the Internet, check the status of a flight or simply view the weather forecast can do so from all areas of the airport terminal. Wichita Mid-Continent offers FREE unlimited wireless and wired Internet access.  Wireless Internet access is available in both the terminal and concourse area, and wired Internet access is available at several workstation cubicles located on both the east and west concourse.
The installation of wireless Internet access in airports, hotels and coffeehouses is not new. Airports typically contract with companies to install these systems in hopes of generating new sources of revenue. Under this arrangement a passenger is required to dial into the wireless network, provide billing information and a credit card is charged for access and use fees while on the system. At Wichita Mid-Continent Airport access to wireless Internet access is FREE.
Currently, travelers wishing to use the Internet at many airports across the nation must either connect to pay phones or subscribe to a particular user and pay access and use fees ranging from $30 to $60 per month. In most cases, Internet providers will vary from airport to airport, leaving travelers confused and juggling multiple subscription services. At Mid-Continent, subscribers to major wireless Internet providers can also access our system free of charge, allowing customers to work more efficiently.
Here's How Wireless Works:
To access the service you will need a standard Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless Internet LAN card. Many newer devices have this card pre-installed. If your computer is not equipped with an 802.11b card, one can be purchased from any local computer retailer.
To access the Internet you will need to have a web browser such as Microsoft Explorer or Netscape Navigator installed on your device. The SSID name for the wireless Internet service is "free".
Once you have a wireless card and a browser you simply need to plug the card in your laptop, power up your computer and experience the World Wide Web.