 
 
WHAT'S THAT THEN?Automatic Ball Trap / Universal Trench / Olympic Trap.  Generally these disciplines are the same, the variations are mainly in the number of traps used, one/five/fifteen.  In ABT, there is one trap oscillating horizontally and vertically within a prescribed range.  In UT there are five traps set at differing angles and heights, again within limits.  OT requires a complex range where 15 traps are set-up in a trench. The 15 traps are made up of 5 sets of three, each trio of traps projects a target to the centre left and right. However, the difference in horizontal and vertical angles differ immensely. Combining this with the random speed makes Olympic Trench the most difficult discipline to shoot and one that gives immense satisfaction if many targets are broken. Each trio is situated in front of a firing position and each shooter gets one clay at a time in an uncertain order. The system is computer controlled so each shooter receives the same amount of left, right and centre targets.
HOW DO YOU SHOOT IT?Well sunshine, if a shooting with a full squad of six shooters, one on each of the five positions and the sixth moving onto position 1 after that shooter has shot.  Each shooter fires from the position that they are on and moves to the right, the sequence is shoot and move until the shooter has shot at 25 targets.  Targets will be called from the mounted position, the shooter has full use of the gun to break the target.
HOW IS IT SCORED?As with other disciplines a tally of broken targets is recorded. Some competitions have four rounds / 100 targets. However the winner isn't determined at the end of this. The shooters with the top five scores take place in a 25 target shoot off which decides the winner.  Blimey!!
WHAT ABOUT THE BEST GUN FOR THE JOB?If you are serious about this discipline then the gun of choice is a trap gun with a tight choke set-up. The choking should be around & full, although I used to get good kills with the Trulock full & extra full chokes, but this might be overkill and daft.
CARTRIDGE CHOICE?
Basically there is only one cartridge to use, a high performance plastic wad trap cartridge. Size say 7 or 7
ADVICE?Even though the average target speed is much higher than other disciplines, there is still no need to panic. Keep a cool head and you will still have enough time to get two clear shots off. Rush your shots and things will only be worse.
FURTHER ADVICE?Use ear defenders!  If you are a serious shooter you will know that your hearing is precious, don't think it's 'hard' to dismiss this fact!  In OT & UT the range usually has a roof which acts as an amplifier and the noise is much louder than in the open spaces that skeet, sporting and DTL are shot.
BEGINNERS RATINGIf you can obtain a score of over 50% you have done extremely well on this the toughest of all disciplines.  A tricky range of disciplines that you can enjoy and get into or just find difficult
and frustrating.
DIGWEED RATING95% and above could see you as a potential World Champion (with a headache from concentrating so much, but a sponsorship deal from Neurofen might be a possibility)
 