 
Magic Website Maker
You will not believe your eyes! Online in minutes! Amazing, fast and only $9.95/month! Free trial!
www.NorthPoleWebsites.com
Cervical Dysplasia
Cervical Dysplasia - What is HPV?
HPV, or Human Papilloma Virus is commonly called the wart virus. There are over 60 types of HPV that have been identified. Types 1, 3 and 5 can cause warts on the hands and feet of children. Types 6 and 11 can cause warts on men's and women's bottoms (genital warts). Other types, such as 16, 18, 31, 33, and 35 may not cause warts but can cause changes to the cells of your vagina or cervix, such as dysplasia.
Cervical Dysplasia - What is cervical dysplasia?
Cervical dysplasia is a premalignant or precancerous change to the cells of your cervix. There are three types of cervical dysplasia: mild, moderate, and severe. Mild dysplasia is by far the most common, and probably is not a true premalignant disease. Mild dysplasia generally represents a tissue response to the HPV virus. Up to 70% of women with mild dysplasia will have the cells become normal without any treatment. However, even mild dysplasia can progress to more significant disease. Moderate and severe dysplasia are treated when they are discovered, because of their higher rates of turning into cancer.
Cervical Dysplasia - What causes cervical dysplasia?
HPV is one of the most frequent causes of cervical dysplasia. In addition, cigarette smoking has been found to be a cause. Women who smoke concentrate the chemicals nicotine and cotinine into their cervix, which harms the cells. Men also concentrate these chemicals into their genital secretions, and can bathe the cervix with these chemicals during intercourse. Male partners of women with cervical dysplasia should not smoke. Some nutritional deficiencies also can cause cervical dysplasia. The National Cancer Institute recommends that women consume five servings of fresh vegetables or fruits each day. If you cannot do this, consider taking a daily multivitamin with antioxidants such as Vitamin E or beta-carotene.
Cervical Dysplasia - How can you tell if I have HPV?
Only one person in 100 with HPV will exhibit any warts. The PAP smear often detects HPV. Even if HPV is not noted on the PAP smear, it is 80% to 90% certain that you have the virus if you have been diagnosed with any type of cervical dysplasia.
Cervical Dysplasia - How did I get the virus!?
You generally obtain the virus through sex contact. Condoms can prevent the spread of many diseases, but not HPV. HPV is found on all the genital tissues, and a condom on the penis usually will not prevent transmission of HPV. The virus can lay dormant on your cervix for 20 years before it causes warts or changes to the cells. If your physician has just discovered an abnormal PAP smear, you may not have recently acquired HPV.
Cervical Dysplasia - Can I get rid of HPV and dysplasia?
Even if your entire cervix is burned or frozen, the virus generally still remains. The goal of treatment is not elimination of the virus, but for the body's immune system to control the virus. Immune system function can be enhanced by not smoking and by taking multivitamins. Cervical dysplasia can be removed by many techniques, and your physician can discuss these treatments with you if they are needed. Women with normal immune system function can be cured of cervical dysplasia. Follow your physician's instructions to improve your chances of keeping the cervix free of dysplasia. Source courtesy of
Midland Family Physicians
Cervical Dysplasia - Other names for Human Papillomavirus and Cervical Dysplasia:
HPV virus, human papillomavirus (HPV), wart virus, dysplasia, cervical intraepithelial neoplasias (CIN I, II, and III); precancerous changes of the cervix, low-grade and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LGSILs and HGSILs)
Cervical Dysplasia - Common misspellings of human papillomavirus and cervical dysplasia:
human papilloma virus, papilloma virus, papiloma, papaloma, human papilloma virus, cervical displasia, cervixal dysplasia, cervical dysplasi, cervcial dysplasia, cevical dyspalsia
Additional site navigation: , , , , , , , , , Popular topics: , , , , , , , , , Other Pages: , , , , , , , , ,