We are committed to the creation of an online video industry that respects and rewards content creators, while valuing the opportunity created by online video distrubtion channels and web-based consumer interest.
FreeTVonline.com takes copyrights very seriously. Therefore, we do not host any video content on our server, but rather, we are a directory of freely and publicly available links to videos hosted on third party websites. Like other popular search engines and directories that index links gathered by their automated machines, our automated machines and proprietary algorithms crawl video-related websites for relevant links to popular video content. FreeTVonline.com's indices of video links are indexed by our automated computer processes and FreeTVonline.com cannot and does not manually screen the contents of third party websites for proper copyright controls. All users who view links to third party websites are required to agree to our Terms of Service.
We are proud to respect copyrights for content that we host on our servers, as this is the only content that we can control. If you find a link to a third-party-hosted website that you find objectionable, you can delete any links simply by marking them broken (Simply click the 'Mark this Video Broken' Link associated with that particular video link). This will remove them from our website. However, our algorithms may re-index those links if the video in question still exists on the third party site. For this reason, we never encode links and we allow copyright owners to see exactly where the content we link to is hosted. Using this information, content owners can contact the video's host directly and ask them to remove the video if they feel thatit is illegally hosted. We are happy to provide this service for copyright owners.
If you believe that your work has been used on the FreeTVonline.com site in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please promptly provide FREETVONLINE.COM's Copyright Agent by emailing dmca - at - freetvonline.com with subject "DMCA Request".It is our policy to respond to notices of alleged infringement that comply with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
A Physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest.
A description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed, or if there are multiple works, a representative list of the works. Please note that you will be liable for damages (including costs and attorneys' fees) if you materially misrepresent that a file infringes your copyrights.
A description of the material that you claim is infringing and information sufficient to establish where it is located on the website, which information should include the complete URL associated with each file, image or video. To delete files from FREETVONLINE.COM's index, FREETVONLINE.COM requires an accurate means by which to identify potentially infringing files. To accurately identify files, you must reference the URL associated with that file, which is located in the location box in your browser.
Your address, telephone number, and email address;
A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and,
A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner's behalf.