Gestational diabetes is a complication in about 5% of pregnancies,is increasing in prevalence, and is associated with complicationsto the pregnancy and a long-term risk of diabetes in both motherand offspring. Intervention to change lifestyle and,if maternal hyperglycemia persists, treatment with additionalinsulin have been shown to improve perinatal outcomes. Womenwho begin insulin therapy require education to ensure the safeadministration of insulin. Use of insulin is also associatedwith hypoglycemia and weight gain. The use of safe and effectiveoral agents may offer advantages over insulin.  Supplemental insulin was required in 168 women (46.3%) in themetformin group. Metformin treatment was stopped in 27 women(7.4%) before delivery (). Treatment was stopped in11 of these women in accordance with the trial protocol (9 womenhad obstetrical complications, 1 had sepsis, and 1 had worseningabnormal liver-function test results); treatment was stoppedin 7 women (1.9%) because of gastrointestinal side effects;5 women chose to stop metformin; and 4 women were advised tostop by other health professionals who were not involved inthe trial. Metformin doses were reduced because of gastrointestinalside effects in 32 women (8.8%); all but 1 of these women wereable to maintain a dose of at least 1000 mg per day.      At 6 to 8 weeks post partum, 552 women (75.3%) underwent a 75-goral glucose-tolerance test. In 62 of 270 women (23.0%) in themetformin group and 58 of 282 (20.6%) in the insulin group,glucose tolerance was impaired or diagnostic of diabetes. Womenin the metformin group had greater weight loss between the timeof enrollment and the postpartum visit and less weight gainbetween the time of enrollment and 36 weeks of gestation thandid women in the insulin group ().  Serious adverse events affecting either the mother or the childare summarized in . There were no significant differencesbetween the treatment groups, and none of the serious adverseevents were considered by the data and safety monitoring committeeto be treatment-related. 