Patch of the Oklahoma Highway Patrol.
Agency Overview
808 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
620 (as of 2004) [4]
Elected officer responsible
, Secretary of Safety and Security Kevin Ward
Agency executive
Colonel Van M. Guillotte, Chief of the Patrol
Parent agency
Oklahoma Highway Patrol website
The is a major of the . It is a division of the . The Oklahoma Highway Patrol was legislatively created in 1937 due to the growing problem of motor vehicle accidents, the expansion of a highway system, and the increase in criminal activities. Today, they comprise highly trained and motivated sworn troopers and civilian personnel who are dedicated to serve the citizens of Oklahoma.Oklahoma Highway Patrol state law enforcement agency government of Oklahoma Oklahoma Department of Public Safety
As the principal statewide law enforcement agency in Oklahoma, the State Patrol is dedicated to providing quality policing directed at achieving safer roadways and reducing crime through pro-active investigations, education and patrol services and by providing leadership and resources during natural disasters, civil disorders and critical incidents.
Contents
[] edit History
In 1937, the Oklahoma Highway Patrol was created under Governor . That same year the first 125 graduated from the Highway Patrol Academy. The new state troopers met resistance from Oklahoma motorists who were not used to living within the bounds of traffic regulations when none had ever before existed. But the troopers were prepared for this as they paved the way for all future officers by exerting good manners and service to all citizens. A total of 288,277 warnings compared with only 5,518 arrests and citations were written in the first nine months of patrol. Even today, motorists will declare that troopers are well-mannered, friendly and hospitable while maintaining an unrivaled level of professionalism. E. W. Marland
With over 800 troopers statewide, the division has grown into several areas of special services including Public Information, Capitol Patrol, Lake Patrol, Training, Bomb Squad, Motorcycle, Tactical Teams, Special Operations, Aircraft, Audits and Fraudulent Driver License. The department revived "The Flying Squadron", a motorcycle division that utilizes Harley Davidson motorcycles. A bomb squad was organized who operate state-of-the-art equipment unparalleled in Oklahoma including two bomb trucks and robots. The east and west tactical teams continue to send their troopers through specialized training programs that elevate them to the best in the state. Special Operations, formerly Criminal Interdiction, now has troopers who each have a well-trained drug canine.
[] edit Mission
The mission of the Oklahoma : Working to provide a safe, secure environment for the public through courteous, quality and professional services. Highway Patrol