Questions About Maps
Appraising a Maps Value
I cant provide an appraisal of your map over the Internet  Im not even remotely qualified to do so. And, as when I , free appraisals are worth what you pay for them. Even access to price listings cost money: the is a CD-ROM-based price listing that costs $149 (see ). has a price finding tool, but its by subscription  from $7.95 for a single day to $99.95 a year. It isnt cheap, but neither are the maps in question, supposedly. Chris pointed out posted this question generically Antique Map Price Record previous entry OldMaps.com
Buying and Selling Maps
though I frequently link to sites that do.I dont buy or sell maps,
Finding a Map
Looking for a specific map? I cant help you with that; sorry.
Homework Questions (Basic Geography Questions)
Cant help you there either. I graduated high school before you were born; I dont need to work on high school assignments again.
Questions About The Map Room
Advertising
I dont sell advertising space on this site directly. If you want to advertise on The Map Room, you may wish to use , and use site targeting to focus your ads on this site (Ive made two of my ad channels targetable). Ads on The Map Room are either or affiliate programs. AdSense ads are determined automatically: the presence of an ad does not represent an endorsement on my part. Google AdWords Google AdSense
Book Reviews
Books submitted for review should have maps, cartography or mapmaking as their primary focus. As an amateur, I am unable to review technical books for programmers or geospatial professionals; historical monographs are fine. Books may be mailed to the following address: Do not send via courier or UPS. I cant promise that I will review every book sent to me, or that I will review it promptly or favourably. Reviews will link to Amazon.com with my associate ID, and I will indicate if I have received a review copy. I dont solicit publishers for review copies, but books Im interested in reviewing are listed on . Reviews of the following books are in the works: See my .
Jonathan Crowe PO Box 473 Shawville QC  J0X 2Y0 CANADA
The Map Rooms wish list previous book reviews
Broken Links
Links are (hopefully) accurate at the time an entry is posted. However, old links expire all the time: newspapers remove stories, sites go offline. With more than 2,000 entries over nearly five years, I dont have enough time to update old entries when their links break. But if theres a fixable typo in a , or a broken link, please let me know. URL internal
Commenting on an Entry
Comments are always welcome, but the enormous volume of comment spam has forced me to take measures that can get in the way of commenting. Along with spam filters, registration is now required to comment (its free and can be used on many other blogs). If youre having trouble posting a comment, . It may also be because of a temporary glitch with one of several systems (try again later) or the comments have been closed on the entry (comments close 30 days after the entry has been posted). My server can also get slow and unresponsive, and it sometimes takes a minute or two for your comment to go through. TypeKey please make sure your browser accepts cookies from third-party servers
Promoting Your Product or Service
The Map Room is aimed at a non-professional audience. Unless your product is of sufficient interest to that audience, even to people who dont buy your product, I wont write about it. Bottom line, there has to be something of interest beyond your commercial self-interest. Be newsworthy; I dont provide free advertising.
Site Outages
I report site outages and other technical problems on . My hosting provider, , also provides where downtime is reported. this blog DreamHost a status blog
More to come.