» Pricing
Law Enforcement — Crime Mapping
(geographic information systems) and data mapping for crime fighting and prevention has become a necessary tool in law enforcement agencies worldwide, probably one of the most valuable tools available. Crime mapping is a key component of crime analysis. GIS remote sensed applications
and display important information about criminal activities happening around the nation and around our world. The added functionality of satellite imagery and GIS in computer mapping has increased the capabilities of crime fighting due to the efficiency and speed of the analysis. Satellite imagery aerial photography
Aerial Photo - Houston, TX
Image - Houston, TX QuickBird
Mapping crime, using GIS and remote sensed data allows analysts to identify hot spots, along with other trends and patterns. GIS also allows analysts to overlay other datasets such as census demographics, locations of stores, banks and schools, etc., to better understand the underlying causes of crime and help law enforcement administrators to devise strategies to deal with the problem. GIS is also useful for law enforcement operations, such as allocating police officers and dispatching to emergencies.
GIS Mapping — Friendswood, TX
Police departments employ GIS and remote sensing technology in various , including criminal intelligence and crime analysis, crime prevention, public information, and community policing. Typical GIS applications involve taking a georeferenced crime database, filtering the data as needed, and mapping it over a street database to put the crime data in its spatial context. Other data layers may be used, such as census tracts, ZIP Codes, or council districts, but the most frequent underlying context is city streets. applications
Potential applications of satellite imagery and aerial photography are numerous. Any geocoded information can be superimposed on the photos, including census data, liquor license locations, drug-market data, injury locations, probationer addresses, housing and zoning code violations, and other data that may be relevant to the needs of community policing.
Satellite Imaging Corporation is experienced in negotiating custom satellite images within both satellite and client-governed time-line. Our geodetic and mapping experts create two-dimensional interactive mapping projects by overlaying third-party data. Other services we provide are: