•  Brazil Map
Tip #7. Do not leave your luggage unattended in public areas, make sure not to over trust new people who you make friends during the trip. Do not accept packages from strangers.
A city with all languages and accents, beliefs and tastes. With over 10 million inhabitants, it is the world's third largest city and the largest in South America You will find a lot of religious, cultural and  Brazil tourism historical sites. Popular places also include The Municipal Market, The Park of Ibirapuera, The Zoo, The Trian Park.
Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world and the largest in South America. Brazil tourism has been very popular for its Carnival, beaches, tropical climate, natural beauty and a tremendous passion for football (soccer). There are several tourist attractions in Brazil including the Amazon forests and Igazu falls. Music is also an important part of the Brazilian community and dances like samba, bossa nova and choro are considered to have been originated here. It was colonized by Portuguese for over three centuries starting in 15th century. This also explains why Portuguese is the most wide spread language here. Brazil is a country of ethnic diversity, you will find people of Portuguese, Black, European and Indian descents. It was the capital of Brazil for about 200 years (1763-1960) and is extremely famous for its yearly 4 day CARNIVAL celebration in February. Also not to miss are the magnificent natural scenery, tourist beaches of Copacabana and Ipanema, nightlife, giant statue of Jesus, known as Christ the Redeemer on the Corcovado mountain, shopping complexes, cinemas, theaters, museums, rooms of concert, show houses, art galleries and libraries. Brazil tourism offers a nice mixture of the Indian, White and Black cultures. Portuguese explorers that arrived at Guabanara bay were amazed because of Rio's extraordinary beauty and the city became wealthy exporting diamonds, gold and sugar. Present capital of Brazil is Brasilia. Rio is truly a remarkable travel and tourism destination. 
BRAZIL TOURISM OVERVIEW -  :(Federative Republic of Brazil)
POPULAR TRAVEL AND BRAZIL TOURISM ATTRACTIONS:
Rio De Janeiro:
Sao Paulo:
is a beautiful tourist village in the south coast of state of Bahia, in north east Brazil. Barra Grande is famous for its untouched tropical beauty which includes its beaches, forests, rivers and waterfalls. It is located in the Peninsula of Marau and has the charm of an old fisherman village.  is a beautiful island located just 100 miles from Rio, very popular spot for Brazil tourism. Its an island covered by tropical forest, white sand beaches, famous for its scenic beauty, swaying palms, adventurous diving activity, rugged landscape and luxuriant vegetation. Unlike Rio which is vibrating modern city, Ilha Grande is largely undeveloped and thus gives the tourists to enjoy the untouched beauty of this island. is a small and popular town in the state of Bahia. Brazil is famous for Carnival and beaches of Rio but nothing beats the white sands and emerald seas of Trancoso. It possesses a 12 kilometer area of crystalline beaches and exuberant vegetation. The beaches are the most beautiful of the region. (or Armacao dos buzios) is a famous is a coastal city located about two hours ( about 175 km) north from Rio de Janeiro. Its a tiny fishing village beautiful white sandy beaches, nightlife and a perfect place to relax, offering high quality of  Brazil tourism services to both domestic and international tourists. is a famous archipelago 545 km away from the Brazil's shore line in the Atlantic ocean with a total area of 18.5 square kilometers.
Barra Grande