"BART" redirects here. For other uses of "BART" or "Bart", see . Bart
Bay Area Rapid Transit
A westbound BART train with aerodynamic design "A" car in downtown San Francisco
Info
San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District
Technical
5 ft 6 in (1,676 mm)
Route map
() is a system serving the . The system connects downtown with suburbs in the and northern . BART operates five lines on 104 miles (167 km) of track with in four counties. With average weekday ridership of 374,949 passengers, BART is the heavy rail rapid transit system in the .Bay Area Rapid TransitBART rapid-transit commuter rail San Francisco Bay Area heavy-rail public transit San Francisco East Bay San Mateo County 43 stations [1] fifth busiest United States
BART is operated by the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District, a special-purpose formed in 1957 covering , , and counties. The name is an and is pronounced as a word, not as individual letters. In some ways, BART is a successor to the , which ran streetcars across the lower deck of the until 1958. transit district San Francisco Alameda Contra Costa BART acronym Key System San Francisco Bay Bridge
Contents
[] edit BART today
[] edit Hours of operation and frequencies
The BART system consists of five lines, but most of the network consists of more than one line on the same track. Trains on each line historically ran every fifteen minutes on weekdays and twenty minutes during the evenings, weekends and holidays; however, since a given station might be served by as many as four lines, it could have service as frequently as every three to four minutes.
As of January 1, 2008, service on every line is at 15-minute intervals at all times except for Saturdays between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., when service is at 20-minute intervals. Also, as of January 1, 2008, BART service begins around 4:00 a.m. on weekdays, 6:00 a.m. on Saturdays, and 8:00 a.m. on Sundays. Service ends every day near midnight with station closings timed to the last train at station. Two of the five lines, the and lines, do not have night (after 7 p.m.) or Sunday service, but all stations remain accessible by transfer from the other lines. service is available when BART is closed. All but six BART stations are served (as well as eight stations). BART tickets are not accepted on these buses, and each of the four bus systems charge their own fare, which can be up to 3.50; a four-system ride can cost as much as 9.50 as of 2007. MillbraeRichmond SF/Daly CityFremont [2] All-Nighter Network Caltrain $ $ [3]
[] edit Connecting rail and bus transit services
AC Transit bus stop at Bay Fair Station
BART has direct connections to two services  , which provides service between San Francisco, , and , at the , and 's , which runs from to San Jose, at the and stations. A third Capitol Corridor connection at the station is planned as part of a larger to connect Union City, , and to various destinations via the . BART is the managing agency for the Capitol Corridor until 2010. regional rail Caltrain San Jose Gilroy Millbrae Station Amtrak Capitol Corridor Sacramento Richmond Coliseum/Oakland Airport Union City Dumbarton Rail Corridor Project Fremont Newark peninsula Dumbarton rail bridge [4] [5]
BART connects to San Francisco's local system, the . The upper track level of BART's Market Street subway, originally designed for the lines to Marin County, was turned over to Muni and both agencies share the , , and stations. Some Muni Metro lines connect with (or pass nearby) the BART system at the and stations. light rail Muni Metro [] citation needed Embarcadero Montgomery Street Powell Civic Center Balboa Park Glen Park
A number of bus transit services connect to BART, which, while managed by separate agencies, are integral to the successful functioning of the system. The primary providers include the (Muni), (AC Transit), (SamTrans), (County Connection), and the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District (). Until 1997, BART ran its own "BART Express" connector buses, which ran to eastern Alameda County and far eastern and western areas of Contra Costa County; these routes were later devolved to sub-regional transit agencies such as and the Livermore Amador Valley Transit Authority () or, in the case of Dublin/Pleasanton service, replaced by a full BART extension. San Francisco Municipal Railway Alameda-Contra Costa Transit San Mateo County Transit District Central Contra Costa Transit Authority Golden Gate Transit [6] Tri-Delta Transit WHEELS
BART is connected to via shuttle buses, which bring travelers to and from the Coliseum/Oakland Airport BART station. These buses are operated by BART and accept exact-change BART fare cards in addition to exact change. BART also connects to the , though in this case the train actually enters the airport directly and no shuttle is necessary, although connections are available to for those not departing or arriving from the international terminal. Oakland International Airport AirBART San Francisco International Airport AirTrain
Other services connect to BART including the (), (north-western ), (), (), and the (VTA, in ). Emery Go Round Emeryville WestCAT Contra Costa County Benicia Transit Benicia Union City Transit Union City Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority Silicon Valley
The bus service connecting the to the BART station was once called , a of the famous actor and director . It has since been replaced by a number of regular AC Transit bus routes and shuttle bus routes operated by the university. University of California, Berkeley Berkeley Humphrey Go-BART spoonerism Humphrey Bogart
[] edit Other connecting services
BART hosts locations at many stations, a program pioneered by . Riders can transfer from BART and complete their journeys by car. BART has started to offer long-term airport parking through a third-party vendor at most East Bay stations. Travelers must make an on-line reservation in advance and pay the daily fee of $5 before they can leave their cars at the BART parking lot. carsharing City CarShare [7]
have formed at North Berkeley station and the area around El Cerrito Del Norte station. The lots are convenient since most carpoolers use public transit back to their final destination. However, because of how BART charges for parking, passengers cannot park at most BART lots without paying a fare. Casual carpools