By 12/4/08 4:24 PM Ernest Luning
Denver’s oldest newspaper  and Colorado’s oldest continually operating business  is up for sale, the parent company of the Rocky Mountain News announced Thursday. “The decision to seek a buyer for the Rocky would have been unthinkable until very recently,” EW Scripps Co. CEO Rich Boehne said in a statement, pointing to a worsening economic climate that has led to $11 million in losses so far this year.
By 12/2/08 3:05 PM David O. Williams
The editor of the fledgling Vail Mountaineer resigned in a huff Monday, sending out a mass e-mail questioning the journalistic standards, ethics and principles of publisher Jim Pavelich, who also owns the Denver Daily News and several California papers.
By 12/2/08 11:55 AM Ernest Luning
Veteran Denver TV anchorman Ernie Bjorkman will get the chance to move into his next career as a veterinary assistant a few years sooner than planned after getting a pink slip a few weeks after signing a quarter-million-dollar contract in October. The New York Times wistfully reported Sunday the as the economy socks an industry already hit with big drops in viewers. decline of big-money local anchors
By 11/21/08 1:07 PM Erin Rosa
In the five years since I first became a reporter, I have worked for two established print weeklies, both of which have gone out of business. Most recently, I was working for an award-winning online news site financially supported by a nonprofit organization, before nearly two-thirds of the staff were abruptly laid off after the election. For young reporters like me, the Internet is the primary medium for news content, and it is already leading to a new and inclusive form of journalism rooted in public participation. Although cynics like to say that the craft is a dead end for both young reporters and veteran writers alike, I think its an exciting time to be a journalist.
By 11/19/08 6:33 PM Cara Degette
Media writer Mike Roberts over at Westword frequently delivers good nuggets, like his report today about how staffers at the Longmont Times-Call recently were invited to by working as valets at a Christmas party for the newspapers owners. And two staffers, Roberts noted, have already taken them up on the offer. pick up some extra cash
By 11/13/08 9:48 AM David O. Williams
In yet another sign of just how tough things are in the newspaper industry these days, even community publications  once nearly unassailable in terms of financial viability  are getting the axe.
By 10/29/08 7:31 AM Jason Kosena
While the nation focuses on the upcoming election next week, many major media companies are making important announcements that are flying under the public’s radar.
By 9/17/08 3:41 PM Jason Kosena
The New York Observer printed an Tuesday asking the simple question: Is print journalism impacting this election cycle in the same way it has others before it? interesting article
The answer from editors and reporters was “No.” New York Times
By 9/12/08 9:20 AM Ernest Luning
A panel of Colorado journalists said an industry downturn has led media companies to shy away from pressing for access to government information, on his National Press Club blog on Thursday. Gil Klein posts
By 9/12/08 8:30 AM Jason Kosena
In effort to offer users more relevant content, and to make money through online ads, announced this week that it will and make them available as part of its Google News search platform. Google start digitizing newspaper archives