Who Says Solar Power Is Bogus?
With the recent attention being placed on alternative energy sources, it is becoming more difficult for any critic of solar power to flat out say it is bogus. Regardless, there are still many opponents to solar energy, and in some cases, these critics are standing in the way of further development.
It is expensive compared to other fuels and the science isnt yet perfected. Energy can only be collected during the day, and long-term storage is not where it should be yet. These cons are rapidly evaporating, and the long-term projections are encouraging. Some argue that , more drilling, and farms are more feasible than solar energy.Some critics still point to the disadvantages of solar energy. nuclear power wind
An example of this came when the spoke-up about their concerns about the impact of building solar facilities in the Southern California deserts. They are concerned about disturbing the habitat for the native species to the area. The federal government is actually stepping in to hold hearings to settle the dispute.Other opponents are concerned about the negative impact large solar farms can have on the environment. California Fish & Game
Some people object to the appearance of the panels, while others’ panels actually become a problem to their neighbors. In this in California, the neighbors were ordered by a judge to cut-down existing trees that were blocking the neighbors solar panels. Californias Solar Shade control act allowed the judge to rule in favor of the homeowner with the solar system. The for solar systems obviously does not bode well with environmentalists.Another scenario are neighborhood disputes over solar panels. situation removal of trees
There will continue to be differing opinions, but no one can argue the fact that we need alternative energy for a sustainable future.Despite the opponents, solar technology and installations are continuing to advance in a positive direction.
Posted on August 22nd in by . Solar Information Anna
Related Posts