 
 
Sure, you'll pay dearly for them and you might even have to take a second out on your house, but if you like ribs, there is nothing finer in rib-heaven then to enjoy a meal of grilled baby back ribs.  
Special tools:  Grill, preferably outdoor, hickory chips, aluminum foil Preparation time:  None Cooking time:  About 2 hours Yield:  4 servings
2  pounds baby back ribs, two slabs 2 tablespoons apple juice
Heat grill to operating temperature, which should be about 350 degrees.  Place ribs on grill, rib side down, and grill for about 10 minutes, until grill marks appear, to sear the meat.  Turn ribs over to sear the other side, until grill marks appear, for about 10 minutes.  Remove ribs from grill.
Wrap ribs loosely in aluminum foil, adding two tablespoons of apple juice to package.  Return package to grill. Grill over about 325 degrees, for about two hours, until the meat is very tender and has pulled back from the ends of the bones.  During the last 15 minutes of grilling, baste with your choice of barbecue sauce.  Serve warm with barbecue sauce on the side.indirect, medium heat,
Baby back ribs are so good and are so tender that I don't rub, season or marinate, as in my opinion, there is no way to improve upon an already flawless piece of meat.  The only way that you can mess up baby back ribs is to cook them too long, or to burn them.
Left:  Baby back ribs, cooking on the grill.  Notice the grill marks.  Right:  Baby back ribs, seared with grill marks are packaged in aluminum foil to cook for an hour and a half or so, with a couple of tablespoons of apple juice added for flavor and moisture.
I like to sear baby back ribs, as searing seals in the meat juices and adds attractive grill marks, which makes for a stunning presentation, which will likely generate a lot of ohhhs and ahhhhs out of your guests.  During the last 15 minutes of grilling, I baste the ribs with what ever kind of barbecue sauce I'm serving.  Note that the ribs are wrapped in aluminum foil and they're cooking over indirect heat.  If you add the barbecue sauce too early, it will char, as barbecue sauce contains sugar.  Actually, I prefer to serve barbecue sauce on the side, as per Texas barbecue cuisine.  
Barbecue sauce?  At well over $6.00 a pound, baby back ribs aren't your every night staple, but they certainly will be the highlight of a Saturday night barbecue.  Don't waste your ribs on the stuff that comes in a bottle, make your own sauce, as its easy and lots of fun, and after you've tasted your own homemade sauce, you'll leave the bottled stuff at the grocery store, where it belongs.  Click on this link for my recipe for Kansas City style barbecue sauce, which is perfect for baby back ribs.
Photo:  Baby back ribs, cut apart and lightly brushed with homemade Kansas City style barbecue sauce.
Rib out, pig out, and enjoy baby back ribs!
 
Copyright(c) 2008 eRench Productions, Inc. All rights reserved. This site has been on the web since December 22, 2002.
Web page design has been created by eRench Productions, Inc., custom photography for any occasion...
 