From - the free . open-encyclopedia.com encyclopedia
A (sometimes abbreviated to ) is an artificial stationed in space for the purposes of using at frequencies. Most communications satellites use or near-, although some recent systems use . A place on the ground with used to transmit to or receive from these is called an .communications satellitecomsat satellite telecommunications radio microwave geosynchronous orbits geostationary orbits low Earth-orbiting satellites satellite dishes earth station
Communications satellites provide a that is to that of . Unlike communication, satellite communication has a propagation delay (also called a path delay) of at least 270 , which is the time it takes the radio signal to travel 35,800 km from earth to a satellite and then back to earth. connections average a 600 to 800 millisecond delay, about ten times that of a link. This delay is a challenge for highly interactive applications such as first-person shooter online video games. technology complementary fiber optic submarine communication cables fiber optic milliseconds Satellite Internet terrestrial Internet
Contents
5 External links
History
The concept of the communications satellite was first proposed by , based on 's pseudonymous work from . In Clarke published an article titled "Extra-terrestrial Relays" in the magazine . The article described the fundamentals behind the deployment in geostationary orbits for the purpose of relaying radio signals. Thus Arthur C. Clarke is often quoted as the of the communications satellite. Arthur C. Clarke Herman Potočnik 1929 1945 Wireless World artificial satellites inventor
The first satellite to relay communications was in , which used a tape recorder to voice messages. It was used to send a Christmas greeting to the world from . launched an in . This 100 foot aluminized balloon served as a passive reflector for radio communications. Project SCORE 1958 store and forward President Eisenhower NASA Echo satellite 1960 Mylar
was the first active, direct relay communications satellite. Belonging to as part of a multi-national agreement between AT&T, , , the British , and the French National PTT (Post Office.) to develop satellite communication, it was launched by NASA from on , , the first privately sponsored space launch. Telstar was placed in an elliptical (completed once every 2 hours and 37 minutes), rotating at a 45angle above the . Telstar AT&T Bell Telephone Laboratories NASA General Post Office Cape Canaveral July 10 1962 orbit equator
The first geosynchronous communications satellite was ' , launched on . However, was positioned in an , so special tracking equipment was needed to see it. The first geosynchronous communications satellite that could be seen from a fixed satellite antenna (over ) was , a satellite launched in . This class of satellite was , meaning that the satellite's antennas could receive/transmit useful information from/to Earth regardless of the position of its solar-cell arrays. By Space Systems, now part of , had built nearly 40 percent of the satellites in service worldwide. Hughes Syncom 2 July 26 1963 Syncom 2 inclined orbit North America Anik 1 Canadian 1973 spin-scan stabilized 2000 Hughes Boeing
LEOs
A is a satellite with a low orbit with an orbital period much shorter than a day. As these satellites can only be seen from any given part of the Earth for a short time as they pass over, large numbers of these satellites are needed to ensure continuous coverage. A group of satellites working in concert thus is known as a . Examples of satellite constellations are the and the and satellite telephony services. low Earth orbiting satellite satellite constellation GPS Iridium Globalstar
It is possible to offer discontinuous coverage using a low Earth orbit satellite capable of storing data received while passing over one part of Earth and transmitting it later while passing over another part. This will be the case with the CASCADE system of 's communications satellite. Canada CASSIOPE
Television
A is a special high-powered communications satellite that transmits to small DBS satellite dishes. Direct broadcast satellites generally operate in the upper portion of the . Other frequency bands include the original , , and eventually . See for further information. direct broadcast satellite Ku band C band Ku band Ka band broadcast satellites
See also