About People to Jobs
Who We Are
The Regional Transportation Task Force is a collaborative effort which resulted from the need to improve access to jobs for welfare clients, low income individuals and anyone who depends on public transportation. With broad representation from government, business, regional planning agencies, chambers of commerce, social service providers, job developers, and transportation providers, is committed to improving transportation services region-wide via new, expanded, and enhanced services to reduce the barrier of transportation to employment.People to JobsPeople to JobsWhat We Do
With funding from the , the , and the , the Regional Transportation Task Force, in collaboration with transit operators, decides where new, enhanced, or extended service is needed. , Southwestern Connecticut’s Regional Workforce Development Board, is the fiscal and administrative agent. Transportation services provided by the , , , and the , in coordination with the Connecticut Department of Transportation and Metro-North, are continually evaluated to ensure that services are effectively meeting the employment transportation needs of those being served. Connecticut Department of Social Services Connecticut Department of Transportation Federal Transit Administration People to Jobs The WorkPlace, Inc. Greater Bridgeport Transit Authority CT Transit Norwalk Transit District , Valley Transit District tMilford Transit DistricHow We Work
People to Jobs committee structure
Why We Formed
Welfare reform mandated the requirement to place people in jobs. Transportation was identified as an area needing change in order to bring former welfare recipients into the workforce. The Regional Transportation Task Force was formed in 1996 as a pilot to improve access to jobs for welfare clients, low-income individuals, and anyone depending on public transportation. Now is an integral part of the transportation system – getting thousands of people throughout Southwestern Connecticut, who are counted on by employers, to and from work.People to JobsPeople to JobsWho Benefits
Improved transportation systems benefit everyone -- welfare recipients, low-income job seekers, people with disabilities, the general public, and employers. Better bus service gets more people to more jobs in the region and job retention increases the quality of life for residents. The region’s economy benefits from a mobile workforce and makes it happen.People to Jobs
What We've Accomplished
The Regional Transportation Task Force has, through its regional, collaborative approach:People to Jobs
Expanded bus service in Stamford, Norwalk, Bridgeport, Trumbull, Fairfield, Stratford, Shelton, and Derby.
Created the Coastal Link service which provides direct service from Milford to Norwalk seven days per week.
Participated in an educational outreach effort to improve access to jobs for people with disabilities.
Guided efforts to improve employment transportation for people with disabilities by providing transportation planning assistance through the Career Centers.CTWorks
 
Committee Structure
The Regional Transportation Task Force, through its committee structure, uses a collaborative approach to improve employment-based transportation services throughout the region. This approach ensures inclusion in the process of identifying needs, planning solutions, and implementing services that address access to employment.People to Jobs
 
Operations Committee
Recommends, reviews, and modifies operational systems as needed. Monitors funding and service productivity. Identifies funding opportunities leading to the introduction, expansion, and enhancement of transportation services. Communicates status of committee efforts and funding to various constituencies for the purposes of education and advocacy. Brenda Burton-Seldon,
Members