[] edit History
The maps were at first geographically accurate, but of the was the first to launch a diagrammatic transport; his work was the inspiration for when he launched his iconic in 1933. After this most transit authorities launched their maps as diagrams, but sometimes also publish hybrid versions that are geographic accurate. Early maps of the , , and also exhibited some elements of the diagrammatic form. The new map (2007), designed by the RaRo Agency, is the first one without slanting lines, constituted just by right angles. George Dow London and North Eastern Railway Harry Beck London Underground map Berlin U-Bahn Boston T Paris M tro New York Subway Madrid Metro [] citation needed
[] edit Elements
The primary purpose of a transit map is to help riders especially those unfamiliar with the system to take the correct routes to achieve their between two points; this may include having to change vehicle or mode in the course of the trip. To help the passengers, the map must use to illustrate the lines, stations and transfer points, as well as a system of geographic identification. At the same time the maps must remain simple to allow overview, also for people unfamiliar of the geography of the area. travel symbols
Stations are marked with a symbol that breaks the line, along with the name of the station. Users can thus use the station names as reference in relation to their travel itinerary, for instance to find their location on a street map or as part of travel instruction. Further help may be granted through the inclusion of important sites for tourists or other unfamiliar travelers to identify the specific station that serves important or location such as venues or the city center; these may be identified through symbols or wording. tourist attractions
allows the map to specify each line in a easy way, allowing the users to quickly identify where each specific line goes; if it does not go to the desired destination, the colors and symbols allow the user to identify a feasible point of transfer between lines. Symbols such as aircraft may be used to illustrate , and symbols of trains may be used to identify stations that allow transfer to other modes, such as or train services. With the widespread use of for fare calculation, systems that span more than one zone need a system to inform the use which zone a particular station is located in. Common ways include varying the tone of the background color, or by running a weak line along the zone boundaries. Color coding airports commuter intercity zone pricing
Many transit authorities publish multiple maps of their systems; this can be done by isolating one mode of transport, for instance only rapid transit or only bus, onto a single map, or instead the authorities publish maps covering only a limited area, but with greater detail. Another modification is to produce geographically accurate maps of the system, to allow users to better understand the routes. Even if official geographical accurate maps are not available, these can often be obtained from unofficial sources since the information is available for other sources.