Map and directions to the TB clinic
Tuberculosis (TB) Control Program
The Tuberculosis (TB) Control Program at the Sonoma County Department of Health Services offers a number of services to assist both and , including: patients health providers
Evaluation and treatment of patients with suspected or active tuberculosis (TB)
Treatment of latent TB infection
Immigration, school, and work clearance
Medical consultation to health providers
Tuberculin skin tests
Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) in clinic and community settings
TB Info Line
Map and directions to the TB clinic
For the Community
The TB Control Program provides confidential testing and treatment services for both latent TB infection and active TB disease. Drop-in consultations are available:
Monday
Print a to the TB clinic. map and directions
People with TB disease can spread infection to people they spend time with every day, such as family members or coworkers. , call the TB Control Program at 565-4762, or drop by our clinic (see schedule above).If you think you have been around someone who has TB
Learn more about TB by selecting from the links below.
Source: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What is TB?
Source: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What is Active TB Disease?
The TB Control Program is located at the Public Health Clinic in Santa Rosa. View the location map for directions. Clinic Location
Provider Line
For consultation and patient referral:
707-565-4793
Download forms
For Health Providers
The TB Control Program provides medical consultation to health providers, and treatment and case management for latent and active cases referred to the program.
Source: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. TB Guidelines
(pdf) Source: Sonoma County Dept. of Health Services. Latent Tuberculosis Infection (LTBI) Guidelines
Patients can be referred to the TB Control Program by:Patient Referrals
Call the TB Control Program at 565-4762.Phone:
Complete the (pdf), and fax it to the TB Control Program at 565-4797.Fax: TB referral form
When you submit the to Public Health, a disease control nurse will follow up with the patient.CMR: CMR form
Health providers are mandated by Title 17 to report tuberculosis or suspect tuberculosis to the county health department within one working day. Disease Reporting
The CMR form is available online.
(pdf) Source: Sonoma County TB Control Program. Pregnancy and Tuberculosis: Frequently Asked Questions
Download Forms