The best places to eat & drink in Rincon.
Click on any logo for more information.
atis an elegant, contemporary Caribbean cuisine restaurant, specializing in steaks, seafood and other local delicacies. Breakfast, lunch and dinner are a real treat at Brasas Grill.  Our lobby bar is fun central.Brasas GrillRincon Beach Resort
 
 
  is a neighborhood coffeehouse in Rincon, Puerto Rico passionately committed to serving the . Sit back, sip a strong brew or an ice-cold smoothie and connect, collaborate and let the ideas flow. You can get some of that too.
Banana Dang best coffee and healthiest banana smoothies Need Wi-Fi or computer access?
 
 
offers exciting vibrant cuisine prepared especially for you by our chef Rosa. Our Bar offers the best in mixed drinks and tropical cocktails. On Sundays, we roast a pig and have a tropical party.Bunger's Bar & Grill
 
 
specializes in serving the best whole fresh Caribbean Lobster, fresh Red Snapper and fresh Mahi Mahi filet, along with in-season fresh Grouper and the catch of the day.If fresh seafood is of your liking, then is for you. This beachside eateryHarbor Restaurant
 
 
offers delicious seafood, steaks and local cuisine. We offer full breakfast, lunch and dinner menus. Our beachfront sunset bar and grill offers great drinks, including the Pirate Special, burgers, kebabs and appetizers.La Ana Restaurant 
 
 
Rincon's newest and freshest restaurant right next to the marina. Come experience home-style, international cuisine for lunch and dinner in a tropical outdoor setting. The perfect place for the whole family to enjoy with happy hour as well as daily food and drink specials. Don't miss the Sunday pig roast, style.
Shipwreck Bar & Grill
 
 
offers a wide variety of fresh fish, lobster and local flavor at moderate prices. The best (seafood turnovers) are made here. We also offer a private dining room and our Happy Hour Bar is a local favorite.Rincon Tropicalempanadillas
 
 
The at Casa Verde is a ree-housestyle open air eatery. Recently renovated by its new owners, it now offers delicious food and great drinks. Our new website is coming soon.
Rock Bottom Bar & Grill
 
 
offers unique and creative Caribbean-Asian Fusion cuisine that combines bold flavors from around the world. Enjoy fine dining in our tropical terrace, with wonderful hillside and ocean views, or in our lush tropical garden. We also host lovely Caribbean Weddings, providing all services, including lodging.Smilin' Joe's
 
 
The continues to tantalize its visitors with its high-end cuisine, at affordable prices. The Black Eagle offers beachfront dining and dazzling views from our Sunset Bar.Spot at Black Eagle
 
 
offers the most unique beachside eatery in Rincon. Enjoy burgers, wraps, traditional Puerto Rican cuisine, fresh fish and seafood. Also enjoy a fresh fruit drink or tropical cocktail from the Tamboo Tavern.Tamboo Seaside Grill
 
 
is dining at sea, in a Sorrento-tiled intimate space with wooden louvers cutting the glare of the ocean, or outside on the gravel terrace under the stars. Enjoying breakfast and light lunches on the open verandah adjoining the lobby and bar is an informal, breezy experience.The Blue Room
 
 
Tis a cool pool bar, delicious bistro and your sushi source in Rincon. Spend your Rincon nights with us and enjoy great food, cool beverages, plus lively music and conversation.he Rum Shack
Check Availability & Make Online Reservations.
See Rincon past & present. Visit our Sights page.
 