GREGORATOS ET AL., ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 Guideline Update for Implantation of Cardiac Pacemakers and Antiarrhythmia Devices http://www.acc.org/clinical/guidelines/pacemaker/index.htm; 2002
ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 Guideline Update for Implantation of Cardiac Pacemakers and Antiarrhythmia Devices
Full Text
A Report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (ACC/AHA/NASPE Committee on Implantation)
I. Indications for Permanent Pacing
A. Pacing for Acquired Atrioventricular Block in Adults
is classified as first-, second-, or third-degree (complete) block; anatomically, it is defined as supra-, intra-, or infra-His. First-degree AV block is defined as abnormal prolongation of the PR interval. Second-degree AV block is subclassified as type I and type II. Type I seconddegree AV block is characterized by progressive prolongation of the PR interval before a blocked beat and is usually associated with a narrow QRS complex. Type II second-degree AV block is characterized by fixed PR intervals before and after blocked beats and is usually associated with a wide QRS complex. When AV conduction occurs in a 2:1 pattern, block cannot be unequivocally classified as type I or type II, although the width of the QRS can be suggestive as just described. refers to the block of two or more consecutive P waves but with some conducted beats, indicating some preservation of AV coneduction. Third-degree AV block (complete heart block) is defined as absence of AV conduction.Atrioventricular (AV) blockAdvanced second-degree AV block
alternative options exist to treat most bradycardias.Patients with abnormalities of AV conduction may be asymptomatic or may experience serious symptoms related to bradycardia, ventricular arrhythmias, or both. Decisions regarding the need for a pacemaker are influenced importantly by the presence or absence of symptoms directly attributable to bradycardia. Furthermore, many of the indications for pacing have evolved over 40 years based on experience without the benefit of comparative clinical trials, in part because no acceptablerandomized
studies strongly suggest that permanent pacing does improve survival in patients with third-degree AV block, especially if syncope has occurred . Although there is little evidence to suggest that pacemakers improve survival in patients with isolated first-degree AV block , it is now recognized that marked (PR more than 300 milliseconds) first-degree AV block can lead to symptoms even in the absence of higher degrees of AV block . Such marked first-degree AV block may follow catheter ablation of the fast AV nodal pathway with resultant slow pathway conduction. When marked first-degree AV block for any reason causes atrial systole in close proximity to the preceding ventricular systole and produces hemodynamic consequences usually associated with retrograde (ventriculoatrial) conduction, signs and symptoms similar to the pacemaker syndrome may occur . With marked first-degree AV block, atrial contraction occurs before complete atrial filling, ventricular filling is compromised, and an increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and a decrease in cardiac output follow. Small, uncontrolled trials have suggested some symptomatic and functional improvement by pacing of patients with PR intervals more than 0.30 seconds by decreasing the time for AV conduction . Finally, a long PR interval may identify a subgroup of patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, some of whom may benefit from dual-chamber pacing with a short(er) AV delay . These same principles also may be applied to patients with type I second-degree AV block who experience hemodynamic compromise due to loss of AV synchrony, even without bradycardia. Although echocardiographic or invasive techniques may be used to assess hemodynamic improvement before permanent pacemaker implantation, such studies are not required.Nonrandomized 8-13 14 15 16 15 17
Type I second-degree AV block is usually due to delay in the AV node irrespective of QRS width. is uncommon , pacing is usually not indicated unless the patient is symptomatic. Nevertheless, controversy exists, and pacemaker implantation has been advocated for this finding . On the other hand, type II second-degree AV block is usually infranodal (either intra- or infra-His), especially when the QRS is wide. In these patients, symptoms are frequent, prognosis is compromised, and progression to third-degree AV block is common . Thus, type II second-degree AV block and a wide QRS indicate diffuse conduction system disease and constitute an indication for pacing even in the absence of symptoms. However, it is not always possible to determine the site of AV block without electrophysiologic evaluation, because type I second- degree AV block can be infranodal even when the QRS is narrow . If type I second-degree AV block with a narrow or wide QRS is found to be intra- or infra-His at electrophysiologic study, pacing should be considered.Because progression to advanced AV block in this situation 18-20 21-23 , 18 20 24 340
Because it may be difficult for both patients and their physicians to attribute ambiguous symptoms such as fatigue to bradycardia, special vigilance must be exercised to acknowledge the patient’s concerns that may be caused by a slow heart rate. Thus, in a patient with third-degree AV block, permanent pacing should be considered strongly even when the ventricular rate is more than 40 beats per minute (bpm), because the choice of a 40 bpm cutoff in these guidelines was not determined from clinical trial data. Indeed, it is not the escape rate that is necessarily critical for safety, but rather the site of origin of the escape rhythm (i.e., in the AV node, the His bundle, or infra-His).
AV block can sometimes be provoked by exercise. If not secondary to myocardial ischemia, AV block in this circumstance usually is due to disease in the His-Purkinje system and is associated with a poor prognosis. Thus, pacing is indicated . Conversely, long sinus pauses and AV block can occur during sleep apnea. In the absence of symptoms, these abnormalities are reversible and do not require pacing . If symptoms are present, pacing is indicated as in other conditions., 343 344 345
Recommendations for permanent pacemaker implantation in patients with AV block in AMI, congenital AV block, and AV block associated with enhanced vagal tone are discussed in separate sections. Neurocardiogenic etiologies in young patients with AV block should be assessed before proceeding with permanent pacing. Physiologic AV block in the presence of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias does not constitute an indication for pacemaker implantation except as specifically defined in the recommendations that follow.
In general, the decision regarding implantation of a pacemaker must be considered with respect to whether or not AV block will be permanent. Reversible causes of AV block, such as electrolyte abnormalities, should be corrected first. Some diseases may follow a natural history to resolution (e.g., Lyme disease), and some AV block can be expected to reverse (e.g., hypervagotonia due to recognizable and avoidable physiologic factors, perioperative AV block due to hypothermia, or inflammation near the AV conduction system after surgery in this region).
Conversely, some conditions may warrant pacemaker implantation owing to the possibility of disease progression even if the AV block reverses transiently (e.g., sarcoidosis, amyloidosis, and neuromuscular diseases). Finally, permanent pacing for AV block after valve surgery follows a variable natural history, and therefore the decision for permanent pacing is at the physician’s discretion . 346
Recommendations for Permanent Pacing in Acquired Atrioventricular Block in Adults
Class I
Third-degree and advanced second-degree AV block at any anatomic level, associated with any one of the following conditions:
Bradycardia with symptoms (including heart failure) presumed to be due to AV block. ()Level of Evidence: C
Arrhythmias and other medical conditions that require drugs that result in symptomatic bradycardia. ()Level of Evidence: C
Documented periods of asystole greater than or equal to 3.0 seconds or any escape rate less than 40 bpm in awake, symptom-free patients . () 25 , 26 27 Level of Evidence: B, C
After catheter ablation of the AV junction. () There are no trials to assess outcome without pacing, and pacing is virtually always planned in this situation unless the operative procedure is AV junction modification .Level of Evidence: B, C, 28 29
Postoperative AV block that is not expected to resolve after cardiac surgery. ()Level of Evidence: C,, 30 30a 346
Neuromuscular diseases with AV block, such as myotonic muscular dystrophy, Kearns-Sayre syndrome, Erb’s dystrophy (limb-girdle), and peroneal muscular atrophy, with or without symptoms, because there may be unpredictable progression of AV conduction disease. ()Level of Evidence: B 31-37
Second-degree AV block regardless of type or site of block, with associated symptomatic bradycardia. ()Level of Evidence: B 19
Class IIa
Asymptomatic third-degree AV block at any anatomic site with average awake ventricular rates of 40 bpm or faster, especially if cardiomegaly or LV dysfunction is present. ()Level of Evidence: B, C
Asymptomatic type II second-degree AV block with a narrow QRS. When type II second-degree AV block occurs with a wide QRS, pacing becomes a Class I recommendation (see next section regarding Pacing for Chronic Bifascicular and Trifascicular Block). ()
Level of Evidence: B, 21 23
Asymptomatic type I second-degree AV block at intra- or infra-His levels found at electrophysiologic study performed for other indications. ()Level of Evidence: B, 19 21-23
First- or second-degree AV block with symptoms similar to those of pacemaker syndrome. ()Level of Evidence: B, 15 16
Class IIb
Marked first-degree AV block (more than 0.30 seconds) in patients with LV dysfunction and symptoms of congestive heart failure in whom a shorter AV interval results in hemodynamic improvement, presumably by decreasing left atrial filling pressure. ()Level of Evidence: C 17
Neuromuscular diseases such as myotonic muscular dystrophy, Kearns-Sayre syndrome, Erb’s dystrophy (limb-girdle), and peroneal muscular atrophy with any degree of AV block (including first-degree AV block), with or without symptoms, because there may be unpredictable progression of AV conduction disease. ()Level of Evidence: B 31-37
Class III
Asymptomatic first-degree AV block. () (See also “Pacing for Chronic Bifascicular and Trifascicular Block.”)Level of Evidence: B 14
Asymptomatic type I second-degree AV block at the supra-His (AV node) level or not known to be intra- or infra-Hisian. ()Level of Evidence: B, C 19
AV block expected to resolve and/or unlikely to recur (e.g., drug toxicity, Lyme disease, or during hypoxia in sleep apnea syndrome in absence of symptoms). () 38 Level of Evidence: B
B. Pacing for Chronic Bifascicular and Trifascicular Block
Bifascicular block refers to electrocardiographic (ECG) evidence of impaired conduction below the AV node in two fascicles of the right and left bundles. Alternating bundle-branch block (also known as bilateral bundle-branch block) refers to situations in which clear ECG evidence for block in all three fascicles is seen on successive ECGs. Examples are right bundle-branch block and left bundle-branch block on successive ECGs, or right bundle-branch block with associated left anterior fascicular block on one ECG and associated left posterior fascicular block on another ECG. A strict definition of trifascicular block is block documented in all three fascicles whether simultaneously or at different times. Alternating bundlebranch block also fulfills this criterion. This term has also been used to describe first-degree AV block in association with bifascicular block. Patients with such ECG abnormalities and symptomatic, advanced AV block have a high mortality rate and a significant incidence of sudden death . Although third-degree AV block is most often preceded by bifascicular block, there is evidence that the rate of progression of bifascicular block to third-degree AV block is slow . Furthermore, no single clinical or laboratory variable, including bifascicular block, identifies patients at high risk of death from a future bradyarrhythmia due to bundle-branch block ., 9 39 347 48
Syncope is common in patients with bifascicular block. Although syncope may be recurrent, it is not associated with an increased incidence of sudden death . Although pacing relieves the transient neurological symptoms, it does not reduce the occurrence of sudden death . Electrophysiologic study may be helpful to evaluate and direct the treatment of inducible ventricular arrhythmias that are common in patients with bifascicular and trifascicular block. There is convincing evidence that in the presence of permanent or transient third-degree AV block, syncope is associated with an increased incidence of sudden death regardless of the results of electrophysiologic study . Finally, if the cause of syncope in the presence of bifascicular or trifascicular block cannot be determined with certainty or if treatments used (such as drugs) may exacerbate AV block, prophylactic permanent pacing is indicated, especially if syncope may have been due to transient thirddegree AV block . 40-52 46 , 53 54 ,, 9 54 55 , 40 52
Of the many laboratory variables, the PR and HV intervals have been identified as possible predictors of third-degree AV block and sudden death. Although PR interval prolongation is common in patients with bifascicular block, the delay is often at the level of the AV node. There is no correlation between the PR and HV intervals or between the length of the PR interval, progression to third-degree AV block, and sudden death . Although most patients with chronic or intermittent third-degree AV block demonstrate prolongation of the HV interval during anterograde conduction, some investigators have suggested that asymptomatic patients with bifascicular block and a prolonged HV interval should be considered for permanent pacing, especially if the HV interval is greater than or equal to 100 milliseconds . The evidence indicates that although the prevalence of prolonged HV is high, the incidence of progression to third-degree AV block is low. Because HV prolongation accompanies advanced cardiac disease and is associated with increased mortality, death is often not sudden or due to AV block but rather due to the underlying heart disease itself and nonarrhythmic cardiac causes .,, 43 45 49 , 50 51 49 ,,, 43 46-49 51 54-56
Atrial pacing at electrophysiologic study in asymptomatic patients as a means of identifying patients at increased risk of future high- or third-degree AV block is controversial. The probability of inducing block distal to the AV node (i.e., intra- or infra-His) with rapid atrial pacing is low . Failure to induce distal block cannot be taken as evidence that the patient will not develop third-degree AV block in the future. However, if atrial pacing induces nonphysiologic infra-His block, some consider this an indication for pacing .,,, 47 50 51 57-60 57
Recommendations for Permanent Pacing in Chronic Bifascicular and Trifascicular Block
Class I
Intermittent third-degree AV block. ()Level of Evidence: B, 8-13 39
Type II second-degree AV block. ()Level of Evidence: B,,, 18 20 24 348
Alternating bundle-branch block. ()Level of Evidence: C 349
Class IIa
Syncope not demonstrated to be due to AV block when other likely causes have been excluded, specifically ventricular tachycardia (VT). ()Level of Evidence: B, 40-51 53-58
Incidental finding at electrophysiologic study of markedly prolonged HV interval (greater than or equal to 100 milliseconds) in asymptomatic patients. ()Level of Evidence: B 49
Incidental finding at electrophysiologic study of pacing- induced infra-His block that is not physiologic. ()Level of Evidence: B 57
Class IIb
Neuromuscular diseases such as myotonic muscular dystrophy, Kearns-Sayre syndrome, Erb’s dystrophy (limb-girdle), and peroneal muscular atrophy with any degree of fascicular block, with or without symptoms, because there may be unpredictable progression of AV conduction disease. ()Level of Evidence: C 31-37
Class III
Fascicular block without AV block or symptoms. )(Level of Evidence: B,,, 43 45 48 49
Fascicular block with first-degree AV block without symptoms. ()Level of Evidence: B,,, 43 45 48 49
C. Pacing for Atrioventricular Block Associated With Acute Myocardial Infarction
].Indications for permanent pacing after myocardial infarction (MI) in patients experiencing AV block are related in large measure to the presence of intraventricular conduction defects. Unlike some other indications for permanent pacing, the criteria for patients with MI and AV block do not necessarily depend on the presence of symptoms. Furthermore, the requirement for temporary pacing in AMI does not by itself constitute an indication for permanent pacing [see ACC/AHA Guidelines for Management of Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction 335
The long-term prognosis for survivors of AMI who have had AV block is related primarily to the extent of myocardial injury and the character of intraventricular conduction disturbancesdisturbances rather than the AV block itself . Patients with AMI who have intraventricular conduction defects, with the exception of isolated left anterior fascicular block, have an unfavorable short- and long-term prognosis and an increased risk of sudden death . This unfavorable prognosis is not necessarily due to development of highgrade AV block, although the incidence of such block is higher in postinfarction patients with abnormal intraventricular conduction ., 11 61-64 ,,, 11 24 61 63 ,, 61 65 350
When AV or intraventricular conduction block complicates AMI, the type of conduction disturbance, location of infarction, and relation of electrical disturbance to infarction must be considered if permanent pacing is contemplated. Even with data available, the decision is not always straightforward, because the reported incidence and significance of various conduction disturbances vary widely . Despite the use of thrombolytic therapy and primary angioplasty, which have decreased the incidence of AV block in AMI, mortality remains high if AV block occurs . 66 67-70
Although more severe disturbances in conduction are in general associated with greater arrhythmic and nonarrhythmic mortality >, the impact of pre-existing bundlebranch block on mortality after AMI is controversial . A particularly ominous prognosis is associated with left bundle-branch block combined with advanced second- or thirddegree AV block and with right bundle-branch block combined with left anterior or left posterior fascicular block . Irrespective of whether the infarction is anterior or inferior, the development of an intraventricular conduction delay reflects extensive myocardial damage rather than an electrical problem in isolation . Although AV block that occurs during inferior MI can be associated with a favorable long-term clinical outcome, in-hospital survival is impaired, irrespective of temporary or permanent pacing in this situation . Furthermore, pacemakers should not be implanted if the peri-infarctional AV block is expected to resolve or to not negatively impact long-term prognosis, as in the case of inferior MI . 61-66 , 52 66 ,,, 41 52 62 64 64 ,,, 67 68 71 72 69
Recommendations for Permanent Pacing After the Acute Phase of Myocardial Infarction*
Class I
Persistent second-degree AV block in the His-Purkinje system with bilateral bundle-branch block or third degree AV block within or below the His-Purkinje system after AMI. ()Level of Evidence: B, 24 61-65
Transient advanced (second- or third-degree) infranodal AV block and associated bundle-branch block. If the site of block is uncertain, an electrophysiologic study may be necessary. ()Level of Evidence: B, 61 62
Persistent and symptomatic second- or third-degree AV block. ()Level of Evidence: C
Class IIb
Persistent second- or third-degree AV block at the AV node level. ()Level of Evidence: B 23
Class III
Transient AV block in the absence of intraventricular conduction defects. ()Level of Evidence: B 61
Transient AV block in the presence of isolated left anterior fascicular block. ()Level of Evidence: B 63
Acquired left anterior fascicular block in the absence of AV block. ()Level of Evidence: B 61
Persistent first-degree AV block in the presence of bundle-branch block that is old or age indeterminate. () *Level of Evidence: B 61
*These recommendations generally follow the ACC/AHA Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction . 335
D. Pacing in Sinus Node Dysfunction
Sinus node dysfunction (sick sinus syndrome) constitutes a spectrum of cardiac arrhythmias, including sinus bradycardia, sinus arrest, sinoatrial block, and paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias alternating with periods of bradycardia or even asystole. Patients with this condition may be symptomatic from paroxysmal tachycardia or bradycardia or both. Correlation of symptoms with the above arrhythmias by use of an ECG, ambulatory ECG monitoring, or an event recorder is essential. This correlation may be difficult because of the intermittent nature of the episodes. In the electrophysiology laboratory, abnormal sinus node function may be confirmed by demonstration of prolonged corrected sinus node recovery times or prolonged sinoatrial conduction times. However, utility of electrophysiologic studies for sinus node dysfunction is limited by issues of sensitivity and specificity.
Sinus node dysfunction may express itself as chronotropic incompetence in which there is an inadequate sinus response to exercise or stress. Rate-responsive pacemakers have clinically benefited patients by restoring physiologic heart rate during physical activity . 73-75
Sinus bradycardia is accepted as a physiologic finding in trained athletes, who not uncommonly have a heart rate of 40 to 50 bpm while at rest and awake and may have a sleeping rate as slow as 30 bpm, with sinus pauses or type I seconddegree AV block producing asystolic intervals as long as 2.8 seconds . These findings are due to increased vagal tone. 76-78
Although sinus node dysfunction is frequently the primary indication for implantation of permanent pacemakers , permanent pacing in patients with sinus node dysfunction may not necessarily result in improved survival time , although symptoms related to bradycardia may be relieved (see Section I, Selection of Pacemaker Devices). During monitoring, pauses are sometimes observed during sleep. Duration of sinus pauses and their clinical significance is uncertain. If due to sleep apnea, apnea should be treated. A small retrospective trial of atrial overdrive pacing in the treatment of sleep apnea demonstrated a decrease “in episodes of central or obstructive sleep apnea without reducing the total sleep time” . Although this initial trial is encouraging, it is premature to propose pacing guidelines until a larger body of data is available. Otherwise, there is not sufficient evidence to distinguish physiologic from pathologic nocturnal bradycardia. 73 , 26 79 , 27 80 ) 447
Recommendations for Permanent Pacing in Sinus Node Dysfunction
Class I
Sinus node dysfunction with documented symptomatic bradycardia, including frequent sinus pauses that produce symptoms. In some patients, bradycardia is iatrogenic and will occur as a consequence of essential long-term drug therapy of a type and dose for which there are no acceptable alternatives. ()Level of Evidence: C,, 27 73 79
Symptomatic chronotropic incompetence. ()Level of Evidence: C,, 27 73-75 79
Class IIa
Sinus node dysfunction occurring spontaneously or as a result of necessary drug therapy, with heart rate less than 40 bpm when a clear association between significant symptoms consistent with bradycardia and the actual presence of bradycardia has not been documented. ()Level of Evidence: C,,, 26 27 73 78-80
Syncope of unexplained origin when major abnormalities of sinus node function are discovered or provoked in electrophysiologic studies. ()Level of Evidence: C, 351 352
Class IIb
In minimally symptomatic patients, chronic heart rate less than 40 bpm while awake. ()Level of Evidence: C,,, 26 27 73 78-80