We've put together some sample raised bed garden plans to help you create your own ornamental raised bed garden. Use them as the basis for your own design and adapt them according to the way you like to use your own garden. Clicking on the images below will take you to a larger picture and more information. The easiest designs use squares or rectangles as the basic unit but there is nothing to stop you incorporating other shapes such as octagons, hexagons and curves.
Raised Bed Garden Plans: Ideas for the Ornamental Garden
(You can find more information on the size of beds, materials etc, at ), whilst provides a general overview of this gardening technique). raised bed garden design raised bed gardening
In the ornamental garden you can be as creative as you wish. For the maximum impact create raised beds on different levels and use a mixture of permanent and seasonal planting. Shade is not such a problem as in the vegetable garden - there are plenty of attractive, shade loving plants you can grow. (If you want to grow vegetables take a look at the design tips and sample plans for the ). raised bed vegetable garden
The most important factor in creating successful raised bed garden plans is to make sure that the design will work for . Base the design around the way you and your family actually use (or would like to use) your garden. When you've finished your plan, imagine yourself actually in the new garden and check that it allows you the freedom to enjoy it to the full.you
Sample Raised Bed Garden Plans
For example...
...if you enjoy relaxing outdoors with a good book, use a series of raised beds to create a secluded, tranquil corner where you can read in peace. A bench alcove can be created very simply by using L-shaped raised beds.
...if you love the style of old, formal gardens, create a simple geometric series of beds, paths and open spaces to recreate the formal look in your own garden.
...if you enjoy dining and entertaining in your garden, use raised beds to create shelter and screening around a patio dining area.al fresco
Don't let the thought of complicated construction work deter you because many raised bed kits are now available in a range of different shapes and heights making it easy to create very sophisticated layouts.
: if you have small children make sure that they have enough clear space to play safely and remember to avoid sharp corners on the beds. You can even turn one of the raised beds into a sandpit for them to play in - once they have outgrown it you just fill it with soil and plant it up!An important point
" is getting a long overdue make-over (thanks in part to the recent spell of bad winter weather in the UK)!
Web Site Makeover
Enjoy Your Garden
All the information is still available but some pages will appear in the old layout until the transition is completed - so please bear with us.
If you have feedback about the new look you can easily get in touch via our form - we always appreciate your views." Contact Us
Main Menu