Rituals
Bonus Charismatic Muslim. Leader of World Wide Muslim front against USA, like fought Apartheid. spent 28 years in prison accused of after a tip from the FBI, before melting all hearts. like FBI or CIA only didn't eliminate the 'African Martin Luther King', fearing outrage. EVERYBODY who met in person, speaks about him with RESPECT. Inherently again opposes slavery, but now Muslims being forced into a harness made in the USA. That includes fighting USA allies, including agressive 'puppet on a string' governments in many Muslim states. [][] Ancient Gnostic Christianity was thouroughly annihilated by Roman Christianity. This natural belief was much more related to ancient shapes of Islam. Any system of belief (culture, for instance Buddishm, Western Christianity or Islam) consist of 3 major parts: ethics, religion and defense. Related to this many ages old common sense knowledge ancient 'Gnosticism' posed that human behavior is divided in 3 main types: 1. Prophets (valueing and revaluing ethics; rare and when also leader extremely rare) 2. Warriors (defending accepted ethics, natural ) 3. The Herd (followers of leaders, easily tricked into religious behavior) Maintaining and renewing is the job of the rare subspecies of Prophets. Think of Abraham, Buddha, Jesus. Defending tradition (accepted ethics) is the job of Warriors (Defense). Think of guys like Mohammad, though Mohammad had more of an Emperor. The Herd follows leaders based on attraction of ethics. Examples of Herds: Gnostics, Buddhists, Red Indians, Muslims, .... is fossilized ethics, nevertheless also finds leaders who attract a herd. Examples: The Roman version of Jesus and Roman Christians, Mohammed and Mohammedans. Hinduism is even more attractive to egoistic leaders, because there is no prophet and Hinduism considers itself founded by Gods like the supergod Brahma. In Western Christianity Prophet, Warriors and Herd all three show religious behavior, or Western Christianity became 1 MegaHerd. In Mohammedaniism seems neglected, but still in Islam rarely fine warrior-leaders step forward. In Buddhism became self-defense, and warriorship is lacking. In Mohammedanism the function 'Defense' is still working. In most Muslim countries pro Western rational governments are established, to protect trade. But traditional forces are still strong and wealthy. Jihad is the ultimate shape of defense. in a Jihad tries to save Islam from agressive Western Christianity. The logic 'rationalism' very stealthy occupied Western circles based on , but is now under serious attack. The only way for the armies to prevent bloodshed is returning to '' and refuse being used for a World War III with the name 'War against Terrorism'. The different army tops might unexpectedly have loads of common sense. And certainly the power to say: Compromise politicians hate saying yes or no, but in the armies that seems a natural command. It would be an in political circles totally unexpected and original way to prevent a devastating Jihad, and a fine start for investigating the mind-murdering thought-system . Army-tops worldwide must feel abused. It's like running a combat fighting school, and because of being very disciplined all the time being selected for hazardous traffic experiments. Often resulting in casualties. Modern studies show that only 2% of common soldiers shoots to kill, 98% doesn't want to kill fellow humans. Only that 'murderous' 2% of the human population gets very influential positions under And instead of mostly practicing soldiers are often being picked out to schools in other cultures. It's much more fun to play together. With little comment the biography of an African Leader: is a member of an unimaginably rich family, and a magnificent warlord, but no . His actions are understandable. His views are quite basis Islamic. In that way he represent mosts muslims world wide. His brother the international banker in Geneva wears Armani suits. Two different worlds, one traditional Muslim and one rationalized. Both (to the outside) see the other as 'weird', but seen from outside those worlds the two of them are both weird (or normal). I don't know Osama Bin Laden, but some of his translated views and the views of some of his followers are quite fundamental. I.e. very literally following Islam in 1 rockhard interpretation. He needs a better publicity responsable for the English market. In the present way homosexuality is treated like terrorism (mind not gays like terrorists, more like ill people). Western Christianity has other dogma's, take for instance pedofiles. There is still another branch of Christianity, much more like the relative Buddhism. That is . I'm sure most Western people share its view of denying slavery in any shape and showing respect to any being. That doesn't mean behaving like 'sheep', but acting like respectful 'warriors'. Back to . He is no Jesus or Buddha, but took an essential role. I.e. weakening rationalism or Western Christian rule (Catholicism seen as doctrine), because all non violent ways showed unsuccessful. As such his role in history is crucial. Off course a few palaces should be destroyed. But 'the poor' don't hate most of 'the rich', only the suppressive part of their habits. Many of those rich people are very creative. This knowledge and intelligence should not be wasted. That would be like killing 'the hens with the golden eggs'. Already enough of knowledge and intelligence has been destroyed in nature. It is that way of thinking that should be stopped, not be repeated by another destruction of creativity. Difference in wealth can have its function, I even can imagine a that a stimulation function based on differences in wealth to be practical. Non economic value however is based on respect. If you consider respect to be 'more important' than power differences (economic), then out of practical reasons differences in wealth should be mainly caused by the energy spent in labor.
Unlawful use of -- or threatened use of -- force or violence against individuals or property to coerce or intimidate governments or societies, often to achieve political, religious, or ideological objectives. Destabilising or destroying the fundamental political, constitutional, economic or social structures.
:US department of Defense about terrorism
The Joker:Mind that US government decides what is law, what is threat, what is force, what is violent, what is intimidating, which governments matter, what is political, what is religious, and which ideologies don't count.
The European Union 2004 definition
The Joker:Thou shalt not attack ? Power The Terminator
Osama Bin-Laden Biography: Nothing is what it seems
Message about Iraq (mouse over)
Osama bin Laden shows way too much to be driven by pure anger. Al Quaida brilliantly channels Muslim anger, also hyper-anger. The Saudi Royal House and Muhammedan Islam are in ethical crisis (like Catholicism and especially the Lutheran branch Protestantism). Ponder about this: Bush Junior is closely tied to the unimaginibly rich Bin Laden business empirium. : 1957; since 1979: Essentially the destruction of absolute part of Western ethics (), by mainly attacking the worst realization. I.e. attacking of Capitalist Empire USA, and also less frequently USA allies. creativity
The Bin Laden family almost has a trillion dollar deposited as US banks like The City Bank. And the Saudis (both pro and anti royal) need the extremely profitable trade with the US (oil and arms), and have a long history of hating Iran, and the shiah part of Iraq. In this light is cooperation of 'right wing US' and Al Quaida plausible?
Warning: unprotestant, Google gave this site pagerank = -1
saw wars for lesser reasons Evolution
Interesting 'objective' text in "Wikipedia: . of The One: Mandela is not a member of a family of billionaires.do all you Mandela-adulators believe that "the end justifies the means", i.e. that horrific terrorism is justified if the enemy is "bad"?Comment
: Isn't spending 0.1% of BNP for 10 million yearly dying people ? Who defines 'the end'? Who defines ''?The Onehorrific terrorism
1: Imagine that you got 'disabled' because strangers stole your petroleum. The strangers don't intend to stop stealing petroleum, and send soldiers and psychologists. After years of forcefully having accepted theft, rape, humiliation, violence and murder you are VERY sensitive. Now the psychologists prescribe a shocktreatment with 'rationality'. The treatment 'rationality' means ignoring emotion, and torturing most senses like being burned alife. The soldiers do the treatment 'rationality' very thoroughly, not realizing that they apply terrorism. Your 'rational' torturers say 'experience' (they might mean 'prejudice') makes them act murderous. More and more such emotionless 'rationality' leaves you in a spasm (anti-terrorism). 2: Young muslim females (traditional or not) in for instance Bagdad desperatily long for having children. Their young husbands out of daily experience know that these children will face a by the US-army with unimaginable force and cruelty destroyed city (US politicians and generals say: 'liberated with rational violence') that looks and smells like a garbage heap. With 'Berlin Walls' of concrete rising out of the mud everywhere. With US soldiers, Iraqi soldiers, Police, Freedom Fighters, Madmen, Criminals, Gangs... Hell on earth: such children would not only suffer deadly corruption everyday but also terrible violence and 8 out of 10 would die like rats. Beautiful young people forced into not having children ....and desperately hoping that will come soon.Meditation
Meditation