Written by Nash Trout on November 22nd, 2008 in , , , , . Men's Fitness Lose Weight Motivation Exercise Diet
You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from your own site. RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback
Let me go out on a short limb here and say: dieting works . . . at least in the near term. But you can increase the effectiveness of most diets and improve your long-term chance of success by mastering several simple diet changes.
Over the past years, I’ve compiled a long list of simple lifestyle changes that combine to build a practical, long-term approach to dieting. Add a few of these changes to your current routine individually until they become habit. In a short while, you’ll notice better, more lasting results if you are able to absorb these changes. Plus, they’ll help kick-start any fast weight lose diet.
: drink an ice-cold glass of water (16 ounces) when you first wake up and prior to every meal. Your body will be forced to raise the water to its temperature, burning a few extra calories in the process. Additionally, it will make you feel fuller when you eat and help keep you properly hydrated.Ice cold water
: there are a handful of foods out there that consume more energy when burned than are contained within the foods themselves; i.e. they have a net negative caloric impact. Try adding asparagus, broccoli, blueberries, beets, radishes, cucumbers, strawberries, tomatoes, and similar foods.Add negative calorie foods
: don’t eat for at least two hours before bedtime, and ideally, in the final three hours that you are awake, consume only fresh vegetables or salad. This is actually easier than it sounds. If you eat dinner at 7:00 PM and go to bed at 11:00 PM, add a small garden salad as an evening snack around 9:00 PM. This will keep you from snacking late at night when the food will have little chance of being metabolized.Two-hour rule
: exercise burns calories — you know this. But effective exercise can burn calories for up to 24 hours after it’s performed and spare your muscle mass at the same time. The secret is interval training. Drop your long cardio workouts in favor of short interval sessions.Switch to anaerobic exercise
: try to stay away from processed foods or foods that increase your blood sugar. Whole wheat bread, sweet potatoes, brown rice are good substitutes for white bread, potatoes, and white rice.Eat brown foods
: after three days at a caloric deficit, add a normal day. If you’re dieting at a 30 percent deficit for 3 days (e.g. 2400 calorie diet dropping to 1650 calories), make the fourth day a 10 percent deficit. That is, in this example, give yourself an extra 510 calories on every fourth day. This will keep your body guessing.3:1 deficit-to-normal ratio
Remember, for maximum effectiveness, add these habits into your current fast weight loss plan. When you stop dieting, retain these habits for the long-term to help you keep off the weight it took so long to lose. It’s always easier to maintain than to lose!
5 Responses to “Quick Tips on Dieting”
Says:
November 26th, 2008 at 7:54 pm
This sounds similar to the slow carb diet, which I’ve never tried. The thing I don’t like about it is that there is hardly any fruit included, so where do you get your energy from? When I don’t eat a lot of fruit, I alwys end up feeling lethargic.
Says:
December 7th, 2008 at 4:14 pm
The key to it all is we have to eat right and exercise. Our bodies consist of over 10 trillion cells. Eating right and exercising will help these cells to be in their very best optimal shape ! This helps with proper cell communication resulting in overall well being and allowing you to be more properly equipped to handle those bumps in the road that you will without a doubt encounter. Plus exercising and proper diet also will aid in the fight against stress which is thought to be the main culprit in so many of the diseases that plague us today. I suggest at least 3 days a week for approximately 45-60 minutes at a time concentrating on maintaining a 70-75% maximum heart rate. You should combine cardio and strength training as they both have very beneficial qualities. Studies suggest that by joining an online fitness/weight loss support group you are likely to have 3 times the success in achieving your goals than those that don’t. To your health! Scott Mosley Fitness and Nutrition Coach 866.620.8671
Says: