Acceptable Documents for Obtaining a Driver's License or Photo Identification Card () DMV 141
Obtain a vehicle safety inspection sticker
To ensure that your vehicle is mechanically safe to operate on the highways of the Commonwealth, it must pass an annual vehicle safety inspection. For information about the safety inspection and the nearest location of a safety inspections station, visit . Va State Police - Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program
Meet Virginia's emissions inspection standards(your vehicle must meet Virginia's emissions standards when you register it)
Your vehicle must pass an emissions inspection before registration if garaged in the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, or Stafford, or the cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, or Manassas Park.
If your vehicle is being registered for the first time in Virginia and has a current valid emissions certificate (performed in the last 12 months) from one of the following states, it may be titled and registered without a Virginia emissions inspection: Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Washington, or Wisconsin.
Emissions inspections in Virginia are valid for two years and may be obtained by having your vehicle inspected at a certified emissions . When you have your vehicle inspected in Virginia, the emissions station will update your vehicle record at DMV. inspection station
Your emissions inspection should not cost more than $28. Vehicles subject to the emissions program will be charged an additional $2 per year at the time of registration. This fee is used to cover the cost of the emissions inspection program. For additional information about emissions inspections and the locations of inspection stations, contact the at (703)583-3900 or toll free in Virginia at 1-800-275-3844. Department of Environment Quality
Meet Virginia's vehicle insurance requirements(your vehicle must be insured when you register it)
To protect our citizens, Virginia law requires the following minimum for all registered vehicles. insurance coverage
$25,000 for bodily injury or death of one person;
$50,000 for bodily injury or death of two or more people; and
$20,000 for property damage.
Or, if insurance is not an option, pay a $500 (UMV). Paying this fee does not provide insurance coverage, but it does allow you to register and operate your vehicle in Virginia for one year. uninsured motor vehicle fee
If you register your vehicle in Virginia and it's not covered by liability insurance and you do not pay the UMV fee, you face a $500 fine, suspension of your driver's license and vehicle registration(s), and higher insurance premiums for the next three years. Whenever you obtain or cancel a liability policy, or add or remove a vehicle from a policy, the insurance company notifies DMV immediately. Why take chances? Get insurance on your vehicle you register it. From the moment you register your vehicle to the day the registration period expires, your vehicle must be covered by a liability policy issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Virginia - even if the vehicle is not working or not being used. Remember, if you sell, trade or dispose of your vehicle, be sure to notify DMV if you want to transfer the license plates to another insured vehicle. If you do not want to transfer your license plates, please return them to any DMV customer service center before you cancel your insurance. Failure to comply with Virginia's insurance law will result in fines, suspension of your driver's license, and cancellation of the registrations on all vehicles that you own or co-own.before
Title your vehicle in Virginia (do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia)
To register your vehicle in Virginia and obtain license plates, you must first within 30 days of moving to Virginia. title your vehicle
After you have insured and titled it, at any Virginia DMV . Your registration fee is determined by:Register your vehicle and acquire license plates(do this within 30 days of moving to Virginia)