: Weight Loss for Women Over 40 Fiber
Fiber
The American Heart Association (AHA) reports that eating a diet high in fiber is associated with a decreased risk of obesity, diabetes and several other risk factors for heart disease. The protection is attributed to a lowering of insulin levels. Insulin is a hormone that helps the body store fat and use glucose, the body's main food source.
Alice H. Lichtenstein, D.Sc., member of the American Heart Association Nutrition Committee, says, "Increasing dietary fiber is just one component of a healthy diet that can help reduce the risk of heart disease" and that the study also "shows that fiber may keep individuals from gaining weight."
Dietary fiber found primarily in fruits, vegetables and whole grains includes parts of plants the body cannot digest. During digestion fiber increases the transit time of food throughout the gastrointestinal tract, which may decrease the absorption of calories.
In the study, individuals who consumed a high fiber diet were less likely than those who consumed a low fiber diet to develop elevated insulin, central adiposity (fat accumulation around the waist) and weight gain.
When eaten regularly as part of a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet, soluble fiber has also been shown to help lower blood cholesterol.
Fiber also helps to stabilize blood sugar fluctuations. Low blood sugar levels causes food cravings, so consuming fiber may help to reduce the number of food cravings you experience.
Fiber can cut down hunger pangs and makes you feel full. And of course, it helps to regulate bowel function.
Oats have the highest proportion of soluble fiber of any grain. Foods high in soluble fiber include oat bran, oatmeal, beans, peas, rice bran, barley, citrus fruits, strawberries and apple pulp.
The AHA recommends a total dietary fiber intake of 25-30 grams per day to ensure nutrient adequacy and maximize the cholesterol-lowering impact of a fat-modified diet. Current dietary fiber intakes among adults in the United States average about 15 grams per day, or half the recommended amount.
 
Where can you get a good Fiber supplement?
-- . This contains both soluble and insoluble fiber to encourage a properly functioning digestive system, and that can help improve vitamin and nutrient absorption. And this comes in a great-tasting formula! Tahiti Trim Plan 40Fiber Complex Highly Recommended
 
Email us at and we'll do our best to answer any questions you have... We're here to help!Still got a question on fiber?
 
References
Nancy C. Howarth, M.Sc., Edward Saltzman, M.D., Susan B. Roberts, Ph.D., Dietary Fiber and Weight Regulation, Nutrition Reviews, Volume 59, Number 5, May 2001
Ou S, Kwok K, Li Y, Fu L, In vitro study of possible role of dietary fiber in lowering postprandial serum glucose, J Agric Food Chem 2001 Feb;49(2):1026-9
Knopp RH, Superko HR, Davidson M, Insull W, Dujovne CA, Kwiterovich PO, Zavoral JH, Graham K, O'Connor RR, Edelman DA, Long-term blood cholesterol-lowering effects of a dietary fiber supplement, Am J Prev Med 1999 Jul;17(1):18-23
Shen H, He L, Price RL, Fernandez ML, Dietary soluble fiber lowers plasma LDL cholesterol concentrations by altering lipoprotein metabolism in female guinea pigs, J Nutr 1998 Sep;128(9):1434-41
Jenkins DJ, Kendall CW, Mehling CC, Parker T, Rao AV, Agarwal S, Novokmet R, Jones PJ, Raeini M, Story JA, Furumoto E, Vidgen E, Griffin LC, Cunnane SC, Ryan MA, Connelly PW, Combined effect of vegetable protein (soy) and soluble fiber added to a standard cholesterol-lowering diet, Metabolism 1999 Jun;48(6):809-16
Jenkins DJ, Kendall CW, Vidgen E, Mehling CC, Parker T, Seyler H, Faulkner D, Garsetti M, Griffin LC, Agarwal S, Rao AV, Cunnane SC, Ryan MA, Connelly PW, Leiter LA, Vuksan V, Josse R, The effect on serum lipids and oxidized low-density lipoprotein of supplementing self-selected low-fat diets with soluble-fiber, soy, and vegetable protein foods, Metabolism 2000 Jan;49(1):67-72 
Main Menu
It's not just plain coincidence that women over 40 face more problems than younger women when it comes to weight loss.  Before you learn the weight loss methods that work for you, find out what makes you different and why you face more problems when you're trying to lose weight...   Why Face More Problems
Your body's metabolism rate naturally slows down as you age. This means your body is less efficient at "burning" fat now than it was when you were younger, causing you to put on the pounds as a result. Learn why this is so, and what you can do to increase metabolism... Slower Metabolism
You've just had a decent lunch not too long ago, and you know you shouldn't be eating too much sweet stuff... but why is it that all you can think of is that plate of pasta and another slice of the delicious chocolate cake? Here's why you keep getting those food cravings, and how you can get rid of the cravings and feel full throughout the day... Food Cravings
You tell yourself that you're going to start on a weight loss routine, but find that throughout the entire process your body seems to have a mind of its own -- it just doesn't listen to you and the body fat keeps increasing! For many women over 40, it may be that you're suffering from hormone imbalance or estrogen dominance. Find out how estrogen dominance causes weight gain, and learn some safe and simple solutions you can use immediately... Hormone Imbalance, Hormonal Changes and Mood Swings
If you managed to lose some weight but then found yourself stuck at the same weight for some time, you've hit the dreaded "weight loss plateau". Find out what causes this, and what you can do to overcome weight loss plateaus easily. Plateaus
Did you know that instead of helping you to lose weight, diets can in fact make you put on even more weight?  Before you go on your next diet, read this to learn how diets can actually do you more harm than good! Why Diets Don't Work
What is progesterone? Why is there so much interest in natural progesterone now? But more importantly, find out how natural progesterone can help you in weight loss... Progesterone
You probably know that fiber helps to regulate bowel movements, but do you know that fiber also helps with weight loss? Fiber
If you aren't burning fat effectively, the fat will build up and get stored in your body. L-Carnitine helps in your body's fat burning activities, and it makes exercise less of a pain... L-Carnitine
Chromium reduces insulin insensitivity, so it helps to prevent excess glucose being converted into fat. Learn how chromium picolinate can help you gain more lean body mass and decrease your amount of body fat... Chromium Picolinate
When you consume too much carbohydrates, the extra carbohydrates are then converted into body fat. Discover how garcinia cambogia can help you to suppress your appetite and inhibit fat production so that less fat gets stored in your body... Garcinia Cambogia
Have you ever dreamt of losing weight while you sleep?  I've got good news for you...  Sleeping can help you in your weight loss program! Sleep and Lose Weight?
Here are some other useful articles that can help you attain your weight loss success... Weight Loss Articles
Want to know how the latest happenings in the weight loss industry can affect you?  Is there something new in the market that can speed up your fat loss program?  If I find out anything worth reporting to you, it'll be in my blog.  Go check it out! Weight Loss for Women Over 40 Blog
 
Email us at and we'll do our best to answer any questions you have... We're here to help!Got a question on weight loss for women over 40?
Main Menu