An American Horse Publications Award-Winner!
Explaining the latest research of and therapy for foot injuries and lameness
By Fran Jurga, Hoofcare & Lameness Publisher
Foreword by Hilary Clayton MRCVS, McPhail Chair in Sport Horse Lameness, Michigan State University Color illustrations by Chris Pollitt MRCVS, Australian Equine Laminitis Research Unit, University of Queensland, Australia
It's here! The put-it-in-your-pocket, throw-it-on-your-dashboard, never-be-without-it quick reference guide to all horse foot problems -- at a cost everyone can afford! Designed for both farriers and veterinarians and therapists, as well as the more knowledgeable owner and trainer who likes to be well-informed! You'll use this book again and again!
Dozens of color and black and white photographs of abnormal foot conditions, therapeutic horseshoes, and care/maintenance procedures.
Chapters on daily maintenance and lay-up care, farrier-veterinarian-owner teamwork, emergency first aid, and up-to-date explanations of angular limb deformities, flexural deformities (club feet), laminitis, heel lameness, white line disease, navicular problems, coffin joint lameness, and much, much more!
Understanding the Equine Foot, 147-page reference guide by Fran Jurga; paperback includes color illustrations of the foot with enlarged views of critical areas; the arteries that nourish the foot with blood; different types of horseshoes that are used to treat specific problems or injuries; the bone structure of the forelimb and the composition of the laminae that attach to the hoof wall; and some common foot problems caused by disease. Topics covered include routine hoof maintenance, emergency hoof care and injury treatment, hoof diseases, a glossary of terms, preventive health care tips, and explanations of various lamenesses. Includes an index, bibliography and Web site listings for additional hoof care information.
Some of the foot conditions and lamenesses discussed in individual chapters: Acute laminitis, hoof wall trauma, puncture wounds,abscesses, angular limb deformity, atrophied frog, bridle lameness, bruising (wall, heel, sole, coronary band), canker, coffin joint degeneration, contracted heels, coronary band jamming or swelling, Cushing's disease, flat feet, flexure deformity ("club foot"), gait interference, cracks, wall separations, keratoma, navicular-type lameness, osteomyelitis, pedal osteitis, quittor, seedy toe, bowed tendon, selenium poisoning, support limb lameness, thrush, hoof wall (white line) disease.
The book is available from Hoofcare & Lameness and sells for $17 plus $4 postage and handling. To order call 978-281.3222 or print out/copy and paste the form below for email orders.
Special offer!Subscribe to Hoofcare & Lameness Magazine and receive Understanding the Equine Foot and four issues of H&L for only $74 (plus $4 shipping)! Normal cost: $78! (US subscribers only; current subscribers may renew). Use our secure order form to safely transmit credit cards online.