Bedstraw
If you require further information please contact , Warden, Gibraltar Point NNR. Information concerning the moths of Gibraltar Point can also be found in the Gibraltar Point Annual Wildlife Reports, or in the following publications: Kevin Wilson
The Butterflies and Larger Moths of Lincolnshire and South Humberside J.Duddington and R.Johnson M.Ed. Lincolnshire Naturalists Union 1983
The Butterflies and Moths of Lincolnshire (The micro-moths and species review to 1996) Rex Johnson M.Ed. Lincolnshire Naturalists Union 1996
All photographs and text by Kevin Wilson
Poplar Hawk-Moth  ( )Laothoe populi
  
The most frequently seen of all the reserve's hawk-moths and may be on the wing from late May until early August. The peak period though is July, when moth-trapping sessions can produce 5-10 on a single night. The larvae are probably dependant on either white poplar or sallow as a foodplant.
Elephant Hawk-Moth  ( )Deilephila elpenor
  
A resident species, quite regularly appearing at moth traps during the month of June. The name elephant is attributable to the larvae which bear a resemblance to an elephant's trunk. These larvae feed on rosebay willow-herb which is plentiful at Gibraltar Point.
Small Elephant Hawk-Moth  ( )Deilephila porcellus
  
Another resident species which can be quite common in some years. The adult moths are usually on the wing during May and June. This is our smallest resident hawk-moth and it's larvae usually feed on members of the bedstraw family. At Gibraltar Point, it is possibly reliant on lady's bedstraw which is common on the dune landscape.
Eyed Hawk-Moth  ( )Smerinthus ocellata
  
This species was first recorded on the reserve in 1970 and whilst subsequent records have been less than annual, it has been regular enough to suggest that there is a population locally. At rest, the cryptic wing pattern is usually sufficient to camouflage it from potential predators. However, if the moth is disturbed, the hind-wings are exposed to reveal the incredible eye-spots as a deterrent.
Privet Hawk-Moth  ( )Sphinx ligustri
  
Despite the abundance of wild privet on site, this large hawk-moth was unrecorded until July 1993. There were no further records for three years but during 1996 and 1997 a handful of moths appeared and breeding was confirmed when a caterpillar was found on the East Dunes. Hopefully, this impressive moth will continue to colonise the site.
Pine Hawk-Moth  ( )Hyloicus pinastri
  
This hawk-moth has seemingly been expanding it's range across England during the 1990's. The first for the reserve in June 1992 may have originated from one of the Norfolk sites, and by September of the same year, one of the highly distinctive caterpillars was found on a pine tree in the North Car Park. The moth is now recorded annually on the reserve.
Lime Hawk-Moth  ( )Mimas tiliae
  
Only twice seen on the reserve; the first in June 1983 and the next in May 1997. Contrary to it's name, this species will feed on English elm, alder and birch. All three species can be found in small quantities at Gibraltar Point making colonisation by the lime hawk-moth a possibility.
Convolvulous Hawk-Moth  ( )Agrius convolvuli
  
As with the privet hawk-moth this is really one of the 'giants' of those hawk-moths which occur in the British Isles. The convolvulous hawk-moth is a migrant species which may originate from Mediterranean Europe or even north Africa if the weather conditions are suitable. It has certainly not been recorded annually on the reserve, but August and September are the most likely months for it's occurrence.
Humming-bird Hawk-Moth  ( )Macroglossum stellatarum
  
Whilst most of the hawk-moths are quite nocturnal, this species may be encountered before dusk. Typically, it will dart between good nectar-bearing flowers at high speed but then remain stationary in the manner of a humming-bird, whilst feeding through it's long proboscis. This is another migrant species which could arrive during the late-summer/early autumn period on winds originating from mainland Europe. In recent years, occasional individuals have been noted visiting the soapwort flowers around the Field Station.
Bedstraw Hawk-Moth  ( )Hyles galli
  
A very rare and stunning migrant from Europe, which has only occurred at Gibraltar Point in three years: 1973, 1993 and 1996. The accompanying photograph is of the 1993 individual. In some years this species has attempted to breed in Britain, but probably for climatic reasons, establishment at any one site has proved ephemeral. This was the case at Gibraltar Point in 1973, when eggs were laid and larvae were later found thriving on rosebay willow-herb. Unfortunately there was no evidence of a new generation the following year.
 