utorial: History of Cartography/a> (an illustrated summary - jointly-authored and available also in the various EU languages, Chinese, Russian and Turkish)
(reissue of a 1989 illustrated article by Tony Campbell in , explaining the basic rules of cartobibliography) 'Understanding engraved maps' The Map Collector
University of Texas at Arlington's site includes brief introductory texts: 'What is a map?'; 'Anatomy of a map'; and 'Deciphering a map' Cartographic Connections
The Wikipedia entry for is worth looking at (it is repeated, it would seem, by ) 'map' mallforeverything.com
is illustrated with early maps and with sections on (e.g.) hat can maps tell us? hat choices did the mapmaker make?- from an author whose research interests are in 'feminist geography, environmental policy, and global political economy'; this can be downloaded as a single, 22-page pdf (a project of the Center for History and New Media, George Mason University, by Joni Seager', University of Vermont) orld History Sources: Maps' essay
. If you are interested in English county maps, see (by Richard Nicholson of Chester)British Isles British Isles map guide - What can I collect?
. (a page of combined internet notes, in Dutch) by Elger Heere and Martijn StormsDutch Caert Thresoor's @ la carte
. (a guide, in Dutch, with basic information about early maps - Andropov)Dutch 'Caerto-Info: Wegwijs in de wereld van antieke kaarten en prenten'
. (encyclopedic entries, with links to other similar compilations in Italian, from sapere.it)Italian 'Mondi di carta'
see utorial: History of CartographyaboveMulti-lingual
. (an illustrated summary, in Spanish, of the history of cartography from the earliest times up to the 17th century, by Mario Ruiz Morales in May 2006)Spanish 'La evoluci de los mapas a trav de la historia' Mapping Interactivo: Revista Internacional de Ciencias de la Tierra,For further online texts see - for example, the page, under 'Printing Methods' (to learn about the differences between engraving, lithography and woodcut). The and listings on this site indicate which elements can be accessed online. Web articles and commentaries on specific topics in the History of Cartography Themes Journals Newsletters
See for links to book collecting. Special Topics: Reference
If you are interested in CD-Roms, videos, slide sets, etc. check out 'Map Ref' site. Boudewijn Meijer's
Buying maps
Visit a local map dealer, or attend a map fair, so that you can see some original maps. Or check out the illustrated, online listing of , accessible via the special Oddens' Bookmarks search option provided for the history of cartography [though note that this site is no longer being maintained]. The 'Web Images' page includes a section on . Use those links to locate pictures of maps of a particular region, or search out those by a specific maker. This is also a way to find out something about an individual item, although the descriptions may be rudimentary. You can also learn about prices from those sites. Or look at Joel Kovarsky's . Antiquarian Mapsellers' Catalogues Larger map dealer sites Book search engines on the web: use for map-related materials
You need to be aware that some modern maps are sold as original. On that see . For information about stolen maps see . Fakes, forgeries & facsimiles likely to deceive Map Thefts
For a round-up, see , which also has sections on map fairs and auctions. Marketplace
Conservation
See, for brief and clear notes from a knowledgeable map dealer Joel Kovarsky's . Also specifically on this topic, from the British Museum's celebrated former Conservator, A.D. Baynes-Cope, is ( 12 (1978)). 'Care of old maps' 'The conservation of maps' LIBER Bulletin
For online advice about caring for maps, a good place to start is the Library of Congress page. Perhaps start with the . There are links to specific pages for ;   ; and . The LC site also includes links to other preservation resources, as does (from the Preservation Department of Stanford University Libraries). See specifically, by Sarah Lowengard, which ranges over various media, including paper. 'Caring for your collections' Frequently Asked Questions Preserving Works on Paper: Manuscripts, Drawings, Prints, Posters, Maps, Documents Care, Handling and Storage of Books Guide to Preservation Matting and Framing 'Conservation Online: Resources for Conservation Professionals' The Conservation Course Syllabus Pages
The British Library's National Preservation Office has put online a range of , including . Another place to look is the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, particularly at the pages for and . The website of the Groupe des Cartothaires de LIBER reprints a number of articles on from 1978 onwards. Publications Cleaning books and documents Caring for your books Caring for your documents and art on paper Conservation
Take a look at , from the Northeast Document Conservation Center {this is being reviewed, March 2007, and will be reissued 'soon'}; as well as their online on a wide variety of Preservation and Conservation topics. Preservation 101: An Internet Course on Paper Preservation leaflets
You may find helpful the brief notes on 'Protecting your Collection' from , and 'The care and conservation of antique prints' by . Old World Auctions Neil Street
Besides those, see under 'Map Societies' below.
Map societies
See if there is a near you (especially if you live in the United States). Or see what is offered by the . They issue a series of practical aids for map collectors, , with the . These are by Hans Kok unless otherwise stated. There is a rolling publication programme, with subsequent mounting on the web. 1 (by Rodney Shirley). 2 . 3 . 4 . 5A . 5B . 6 (by Hans Kok and Corinne Hillman). 7 . 8 . Map Society International Map Collectors' Society (IMCoS) Bulletins Journal Judging a map's condition Distinguishing fake from real Looking after antique maps and prints Photographing your maps Mounting maps and prints Framing maps and prints Small repairs to antique maps Cataloguing map collections Insurance for map collections
John Docktor's will give you the dates of upcoming society meetings. You will always be welcome. Calendar
Road maps
Pascal Pannetier's includes links, mostly relating to the USA, see (go to half way down the page). For a good collection of links, relating mostly to US roads, see . Histoire des cartes routies Collections de cartes routieres /Road map collectors Road and Roadmap Links
There is also an Internet list: and two societies: ; and Association des Collectionneurs de Guides et Cartes Michelin [contact Denis Rivie: DENIS-RIVIERE(at)wanadoo.fr (NB. You need to replace (at) with the @ symbol)]. Roadmaps-L Road Map Collectors Association
Pascal Pannetier runs a quarterly print journal, . For other information on road maps see under 'roads' on the page of 'Web Articles'. For images of road maps, see , select the appropriate geographical heading, and search [Ctrl+F] for 'roads'. Route Nostalgie 'Themes' 'Web Images'