By 6/15/07 3:08 PM Cara Degette
Amid the carnage of newsroom cuts all over Colorado in recent months, one blogger’s response to Jim Spencer’s carries an ominous message that best would be acknowledged by the suits upstairs: To wit: Carving writing talent out of newsrooms will not help sagging circulation and advertising one bit. farewell column today
“I will no longer to subsribe to the ,” goes the note, which is signed ‘Cancel My Subscription.’ “Jim Spencer and Diane Carmen [sic] are THE main reason I read the paper. Why not keep a thoughtful journalist around and delete some of your ‘junk’ news? It is truly a sad day for Denver and all of Colorado. I’ll miss you Jim. As I know oodles of thousands of other ‘thinking’ Coloradoans will too.”Denver Post
On top of Spencer, this week saw the departure of from the , including Perspective Editor Todd Engdahl. Still others are also on their way out. In all, the plans 37 cuts, on top of 35 from last year. a multitude of longtime journalists PostPost
In obtained by and reprinted by national media columnist Jim Romanesko, Editor Greg Moore talked about the painful cuts. a June 11 memo WestwordPost
To the Staff:
As you have probably already heard, some very good journalists lost their jobs today. This is always difficult and today was no exception. We did involuntary separations for five exempt employees: Jim Spencer, Todd Engdahl, Regina Avila, Kay Jarvis and Carla Kimbrough-Robinson. All have contributed much to this paper and we will miss them. Their last day is Friday, June 15. These departures are on top of the 16 voluntary ones we announced Friday. In coming days, we will be reviewing remaining staffing, the budget and the newsroom reorganization. It is clear that we will be changing how we do business. Your patience is appreciated. More details to come.
Greg
The purged its staff of 17 longtime journalists last month, and the Colorado Springs went through a series of layoffs earlier this year.Rocky Mountain NewsGazette.
Also this week, the Gannett-owned in Fort Collins announced that , including two in the newsroom. It is the second round of cuts in as many years, and leaves 215 employees at the newspaper.Coloradoan 10 jobs have been cut
Cara DeGette is a senior fellow at Colorado Confidential, and a columnist and contributing editor at the Colorado Springs Independent. E-mail her at cdegette@coloradoconfidential.com