DVDs Gifts Telescopes Toys & Games Video Downloads Cosmos: Carl Sagan DVD
 
Learn about outer space, leading scientific exploration, new technology, earth science basics, & more with science videos & news from Science Channel. Big cities mean big problems. See how science solves mega-city challenges. Everybody loves a mashup, but what about mixing science? Check out 2008's top 10 science stories The Nerdabout gang thrills to the agony of defeat. Including a deadly fight with a phonebook. Join theoretical physicist Michio Kaku on a journey to the stranger realms of the universe, and ask him a question in our forum. Some of the Army's most valuable fighters are physicists, chemists and engineers.
Science Channel: Space, Technology, Earth Science, Geology
 
LISTSTOP TEN
Sure, penicillin is on the list, but everything else might surprise you. Top 10 Accidental Inventions
 
 
OF THE WEEKSTORY
Ready to move to Mars? Get packing! NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has uncovered a type of mineral in bedrock on the Martian surface that suggests the planet might once have had an environment hospitable to life. Some ideas are better (or worse) when you mash them up. Wind + Nuclear: two great tastes that taste great together? Or a big mistake? Habitable Area on Mars?
 
NERDABOUT
Nerdabout will be covering every meetup, tweetup and hacker collective — perhaps in a city near you. There is no event too geeky, no hobby too nerdy, to be given its due. Join our bloggers as they report from the front, and stay connected with the latest in tech scene nerdvana. Think Locally, Geek Globally
 
Explore cutting-edge scientific and technological advancements. Beyond Tomorrow
 
Go inside the peculiar brilliance of a man called a "super brain." Brainman
 
Josh Zepps takes you to the front lines of scientific breakthroughs. Brink
 
Learn more about Carl Sagan and take our Cosmos quiz. Cosmos
 
Explore the inner workings of commonplace objects. Deconstructed
Learn the true story of the Internet from the men and women who made it possible. Download
 
Review the 100 greatest discoveries across eight different science categories. Greatest Discoveries
 
Uncover the secrets of engineering that make our modern world possible. How Do They Do It?
 
Find out how many of the everyday objects we use are manufactured. How It's Made
 
Experience the extreme dangers of a human mission to Mars. Mars Rising
Meet backyard engineers who turn pumpkins into projectiles. Punkin' Chunkin'
 
Join physicist Michio Kaku on a trip to the stranger realms of science. Sci Q Sundays
 
Play the solar symphony game and explore the violent history of the moon. Space Week
 
Alone in the wild, Les Stroud shows the skill to survive. See his top ten lists. Survivorman
 
See how bizarre experiments can lead to new technologies. Weird Connections
 
Dedicated to the unique relationship between people and animals. Animal Planet
 
Wildlife, world culture, adventure and more exclusive content in HD. HD Theater
 
Delivering remarkable insight into investigation, forensic analysis and true stories that piece together puzzles of human nature. Investigation Discovery
 
Your source for health & wellness info, tips, tools & support. Discovery Health
 
Your only destination for weapons, warfighters and history - 24/7. Military Channel
 
High performance content about the technology and culture of cars, motorcycles, airplanes and more. Turbo
 
The premier provider of real-world entertainment. Discovery Channel
 
TLC is an affirmative and connective experience. TLC
 
A global initiative including a television network, interactive tools and "how-to" resources. Planet Green
 