Hamlet, Prince of Denmark William Shakespeare
Written between and the summer of , this masterpiece of first appeared in print in in a version known as the , a pirated version with no authority. The authorised (Q2) followed shortly after the first, while a slightly altered and reduced version was published in the of Shakespeare's complete works. See . The text in modern editions is a compromise between the Second Quarto text and the Folio text. 1598 1602 Elizabethan theatre 1603 Bad QuartoSecond QuartoFirst Folio Folios and Quartos (Shakespeare)
The play concerns the dilemma of prince Hamlet, whose father, King of Denmark, has recently died. Hamlet's uncle Claudius has taken the throne of following the King's death, and immediately married the widowed Queen of Denmark. Denmark
Hamlet expresses a profound dissatisfaction with the accession of the mediocre Claudius and particularly with his mother's hasty remarriage. Hamlet soon encounters the ghost of his dead father, who informs him that he was murdered by Claudius, and urges Hamlet to avenge him.
In , is possibly the most often produced work, in almost every western country, and it is considered a crucial test for mature ; notably Hamlet's (Act Three, Scene One), the most popular passage of this play, is so well known that it has become a stumbling-block for many modern actors. Depressed by events surrounding his father's apparent murder, he seems to contemplate suicide, then waxes philosophical on why people choose to live on despite the hardships of life. theatre Hamlet actors soliloquy
Hamlet, or Amleth, was a legendary Danish prince (see: ) whose exploits were recorded by in his around 1200 AD; Francois de Belleforest adapted Saxo's story in his (1570). Shakespeare's main source, however, is believed to be an earlier play about Hamlet (the ), which is attributed to and is known to have introduced a ghost to the story. Shakespeare may also have taken some elements from Kyd's other play, , especially the hero's procrastination. Hamlet (legend) Saxo Grammaticus Gesta Danorum Histoires tragiques Ur-Hamlet Thomas Kyd The Spanish Tragedy