October 17, 2008
A Letter to the Rocky Mountain News
Two weeks ago, I wrote the below letter to the Rocky Mountain News intending that it be forwarded to other news organizations:
Editor, Rocky Mountain News
Sir:
I have been impressed with your coverage of the Colorado courts for some time. I think it takes courage to do much of what you have done. You demonstrate courage while the other papers are more than willing to watch the courts mistreat the public in silence. The Denver Post, more often than not, acts as a cheerleader for, and promoter of, judicial and lawyer misconduct.
I am one of the members of the public that the courts mistreated, as you will discover by skimming the attached.I chose the style of writing and level of detail to make it as difficult as possible for anyone to sue me for libel, but it makes it less readable. 
In one way, I am unique. About three years ago, I determined that I wouldnt ever get a fair trial. I began pushing the system so that I would eventually be able to thoroughly document that it is intentionally designed to protect lawyers and judges, but not the public. My goal was to use the data I gathered to put an easily justifiable corrective amendment on the state Constitution.
Ive given much thought to the form that an amendment might take. Ideally, I would like to do a thoughtful amendment that transfers the constitutional authority for judicial and lawyer disciplinary rules making and enforcement to a body of non-lawyers on the theory that non-lawyers wouldnt be predisposed to protect a profession to which they dont belong. If O passes, thoughtful amendments become too expensive and too risky to attempt.
My second thought is to leave the system intact but to tax the legal profession AND the media sufficiently heavily that people like me can be made whole while the level of judicial independence (or irresponsibility) that most of the media seems to prefer remains intact. It would be almost impossible for the courts to set such a system aside. If cleverly enough designed, the courts couldnt minimize the damages, and it couldnt be demagoged. The writers and supporters of Ref O seem to prefer very simple language. I think it would be ironic if they are the first to pay a heavy price for that simplicity.
My third thought would be to put a simple one sentence amendment on the ballot stripping judges and justices of immunity from civil suit if they fail to protect the public from misconduct. That is too easily demagoged, and the Denver Post would do so in a heartbeat. Besides, there are a lot of people who are damaged by the system who lack the money to sue a judge or justice.
Since I have provided the other two major papers with a copy of this, though with different cover letters, I thought I might send it along for your information. The information in the attachments is embargoed until after the election, although I intend to put this cover letter up on my blog. Please provide a copy to any media professional organizations that might be interested as the tax burden will be thoroughly spread. I expect it to be quite large until everyone, lawyers and the media decides it is in their interest to protect the public.
I really regret that it must include a news organization like yours given your history of being quite responsible in your reporting on and editorializing about the courts. Ref O will push people in really stupid, simplistic directions, and this is one of them.
You are free, and indeed encouraged to scatter this letter far and wide as long as every recipient understands that the information in the enclosures is not to be published in any form until after the election.
The attachment was the long version of .  The full version will be published after the election.  The attachment also included a letter to two staffers at legislative council. this earlier post
Posted by A Watcher on October 17, 2008 at 06:58 AM in Legal Ethics Reform | Permalink