[] edit Etymology
The word "Hungarian" is thought to be derived from the , possibly because the Magyars were neighbours (or confederates) of the in the sixth century, whose leading tribal union was called the "" (meaning "ten tribes" or "ten arrows" in ). Bulgar-Turkic Onogur Empire of the Onogurs Onogurs Old Turkic [20] [21]
The "H-" prefix in many languages ( etc.) is a later addition. It was taken over from the name of the "", a semi-nomadic tribe that briefly lived in the area of present-day Hungary and, according to legends originating in the medieval period, was the people from which the Magyars arose. The identification of the "Hungarians" with the "Huns" has often occurred in historiography and literature. Even today, Hun names like , , and are popular among Hungarians. This identification began to be disputed in the late nineteenth century and is still a source of major controversy among scholars who insist that there could be no direct connection between the two.Hungarians, Hongrois, Hungarus Huns Attila R ka Ildik
"" is the term Hungarians use, in their own language, to refer to themselves or to their language. The English equivalent for the word would be "". However, the word "" is frequently used in English context. In most cases it is used when referring to Hungarian nationality, ethnicity, and, in a broader context, when describing the medieval nomadic Hungarian/Magyar tribes. Some sources claim "" to be the proper form instead of Hungarian, although "" is the form that took root in the English language over the centuries.MagyarHungarianMagyar [22] [23] MagyarHungarian
Many theories exist on the origins and meanings of the word """, although the of the words and is accompanied by less debate. In texts Hungarians were referred to as or (), in and early texts , words were used, presumably from the Turkic word , meaning ten arrows, i.e. ten tribes (the traditional Hungarian tribes (Megyer, Jen , Keszi, Ny k, K r, Tarj n, while K rt and Gyarmat merged into one tribe making it seven total) joined by three tribes whose names are not known for sure (with the usual suspects being S g, Lad ny, Ber ny, T rk ny). Later, from the form evolved the words , , , and . In the Middle Ages the Latin , words changed to , , that also referred to the Hungarians being related to the , a common belief until the 19th century. This finally was the base for many languages' word for Hungarian/Hungary.Magyar [24] etymology HungaryHungarian Old Slavic UgorsOgursUgri Byzantine Latin uniguriUngriOn ogur Kabar UnugorUngarusUngarUngarnVengerUngarusUngariaHungarusHungaria Huns [25]
[] edit Ethnic affiliations and genetic origins
Main article: Hungarian prehistory
The origin of the Hungarians is partly disputed. The most widely-accepted theory of origin from the late nineteenth century is based primarily on linguistic and ethnographical arguments. Contesting these, the theory is criticized as relying too much on 's of , and some cite that Finno-Ugric-speaking peoples have a wide range of cultural, and variation. It should also be noted that though old and modern-day Hungarians have a predominantly European genetic makeup, one research states that about 13% of the population have retained the other Uralic language speakers' genes, while another sees no genetic continuity. There are also other theories stating that the Magyars are descendants of , and/or . These other theories tend to be based upon unsound critical methodology, especially in regard to existing linguistic evidence, so most scholars dismiss them as speculation. To the extent that Magyars are descended from these groups, it would be due to absorption and assimilation of the remnants of these groups already living in the Pannonian plain and not due to any prior linguistic or ethnic connections. Finno-Ugric [26] August Schleicher Stammbaumtheorie historical linguistics ethnic genetic [27] [28] [29] Scythians Huns Avars [] citation needed [] citation needed
The belongs to the group of languages. The closest related languages are the (or Ostyak) and the (or Vogul). Hungarian is also related to and . Hungarian language Finno-Ugric Khanty language Mansi language [30] Finnish Estonian
Based on the Kosztolnyik researches , not so long ago, historical research concluded the term magyar derived from the name of (prince) (also known as Mugel), by arguing that "Muageris" had to be a personal name taken from the descriptive designation of a people. It presented the hypothesis that the Huns in the Crimea were, really, the , and the names of the two princes mentioned by (Grodas and Muageris - ) as living in the region of (Sea of Azov) and of the Kuban stream during the earlier half of the sixth century, actually referred to people under the rule of the Magyar () tribe. [31] Muageris Onogurs Malalas Hunnic rulers Maeotian Lake Muageris
[] edit Pre-fourth century AD
This section does not any . cite references or sources
Please help by adding citations to . material may be challenged and removed. improve this section reliable sources Unverifiable (July 2008)
Migration of the Magyars
Sometime during the fourth millennium BC, the -speaking peoples who were living in the central and southern regions of the split up. The peoples speaking dispersed primarily towards the west and northwest and came into contact with Iranian speakers who were spreading northwards. From at least 2000  BC onwards, the Ugrian speakers became distinguished from the rest of the Finno-Ugric community. Judging by evidence from burial mounds and settlement sites, they interacted with the . More advanced tribes arriving from the southern steppes taught them how to farm, breed cattle and produce objects. Around 1500 BC, they started to breed horses and horse riding became one of their typical activities. Uralic Urals Finno-Ugric languages [32] Andronovo Culture [33] bronze [] citation needed [] citation needed
In the early first millennium BC, the northern Ugrian subgroup (the ) moved to the lower , while southern Ugrians remained in the south and became herdsmen. Since these southern Ugrians became the ancestors of the Magyars, this division is usually marked as the beginning of the Magyars as a distinct ethnic group. During the following centuries, the Magyars continued to live in the wood-steppes and steppes southeast of the Ural Mountains, strongly influenced by their immediate neighbours of Iranian extraction. Ob-Ugrians Ob River nomadic [] citation needed [] citation needed [] citation needed
[] edit Fourth century to c.830 AD
Map showing location of the Magyars in 600 AD.
In the fourth and fifth centuries AD, the Magyars moved to the west of the Ural Mountains to the area between the southern Ural Mountains and the known as Bashkiria () and . Volga River Bashkortostan Perm Krai
In the early eighth century, some of the Magyars moved to the to an area between the Volga, Don and the rivers. Meanwhile, the descendants of those Magyars who stayed in remained there as late as 1241. As a consequence, earlier scholarship considered the Magyars and the as two branches of the same nation. The earlier Bashkirs, however, were decimated during the (thirteenth century) and assimilated into . Don River Seversky Donets [] citation needed Bashkiria Bashkirs [] citation needed Mongol invasion of Europe Turkic peoples [] citation needed
The Magyars around the Don River were subordinates of the . Their neighbours were the archaeological , i.e. (Proto-Bulgarians, descendants of the ) and the , from whom they learned gardening, elements of cattle breeding and of agriculture. The Bulgars and Magyars shared a long-lasting relationship in , either by alliance or rivalry. The system of two rulers (later known as and ) is also thought to be a major inheritance from the Khazars. Tradition holds that the Magyars were organized in a confederacy of tribes called (lit. seven Hungarians). The tribes of the were; , , , , , , and . The confederacy was formed as a border defending allies of mainly during the reign of and Ovadyah, with the tribe as ascendant. Khazar khaganate Saltov Culture Bulgars Onogurs Alans Khazaria [] citation needed kende gyula [] citation needed h tmagyarh tmagyarJenK rKesziK rt-GyarmatMegyerNy kTarj n Khazaria Khagan Bulan Magyar[] citation needed
[] edit c.830 to c.895
Migration of the Magyars, and the Honfoglal s
Around 830, a civil war broke out in the Khazar khaganate. As a result, three tribes out of the Khazars joined the Magyars and they moved to what the Magyars call the , i.e. the territory between the and the (today's ). Around 854, the Magyars had to face a first attack by the . (According to other sources, the reason for the departure of the Magyars to Etelk z was the attack of the Pechenegs.) Both the Kabars and earlier the may have taught the Magyars their ; according to the Finno-Ugric theory, this is used to account for at least three hundred Turkic words and names still in modern Hungarian. The new neighbours of the Magyars were the and the eastern . Archaeological findings suggest that the Magyars entered into intense interaction with both groups. From 862 onwards, the Magyars (already referred to as the ) along with their allies, the Kabars, started a series of looting raids from the Etelk z to the Carpathian Basin mostly against the (Germany) and , but also against the and . Kabar Etelk z Carpathians Dnieper River Ukraine [] citation needed Pechenegs [] citation needed [] citation needed Bulgars Turkic languages [] citation needed Vikings Slavs [] citation needed Ungri Eastern Frankish Empire Great Moravia Balaton principality Bulgaria [34]
[] edit Entering the Carpathian Basin (after 895)
Prince crossing the . A detail from and his assistants' vast canvas (over 1800 ), painted to celebrate the one-thousandth anniversary of the Magyar conquest of Hungary, now displayed at the National Memorial Site in Hungary.
Hungarian campaigns in the 10th century. Most European nations were literally praying for mercy, as a famous prayer of the time shows: "Sagittis hungarorum libera nos Domine" - "Lord save us from the arrows of Hungarians"
The entry of the Magyars into the Carpathian basin, from the , 1360.