Solar Heating and PowerUnderfloor Heating Systems
Tel: 01932 78 48 48 Fax: 01932 78 48 49 E-mail:
Solar Heating
Solar water heating is when daylight is converted into heat by solar panels normally located on the roof. This heat is stored within a solar hot water cylinder where it can be used to provide domestic hot water or underfloor heating within a building.
Rayotec (UK), established in 1987, and its network of dealers have installed over 6000 solar hot water systems throughout the UK and Ireland. The company is fully accredited to handle domestic and commercial projects involving domestic hot water, , , process hot water and . underfloor heating swimming pool heating commercial solar water heating
Solar Electric Power
Photovoltaic solar panels convert sunlight into solar electric power. This is used to run all electrical devices within a building. We design and install our photovoltaic solar power systems to be grid connected. This allows for surplus electrical solar power to be sold to any electric power provider negating the need for expensive batteries. solar electricity
A range of high quality, high performance are available from Rayotec which can be fitted "on-roof" or "within-roof". As an accredited supplier and installer our installed solar power systems benefit from maximum government solar power grant available. photovoltaic solar power panels
Electric Underfloor Heating
The ribbon electric underfloor heating mats are an ideal way of having the benefits of (space saving, aesthetics & warm floors) but without the normal limitations of standard electric underfloor heating systems. The high surface area of the ribbons allow the electric underfloor heating mats to be used under tiles, wooden floors or carpet! They also allow for fast and easy and have reduced running costs when compared to cable systems. electric underfloor heating DIY underfloor heating installation
Rayotec UK provides a design and supply service and have sold ribbon electric underfloor heating systems to projects of all sizes from bathrooms to large commercial projects.
Warm Water Underfloor Heating
Warm water underfloor heating is an ideal heating solution for extensions, renovations or new build projects. can be installed within a screed, wooden suspended, floating or retrofit floor. Approximately 30% of space is taken up by radiators in a home. The use of underfloor heating systems however give great flexibility to room layouts ideal for any project. Underfloor heating is the closest to an ideal heating system, giving maximum comfort, more control and can save 25-30% on heating bills. It can also be linked to renewable energy sources such as and heat pumps. Warm water underfloor heating solar hot water panels
Rayotec UK provide a full custom design and supply service for the PEX-Al-PEX and . Standard single zone packs are also available for conservatories or extensions. triple tube underfloor heating system