The was a released by .Atari 7800 video game console Atari
The 7800 was designed to replace the floundering , and to once and for all re-establish Atari's market supremacy against the and . With this system, Atari addressed all the shortcomings of the Atari 5200: it had simple, digital ; it was backwards compatible with the ; and it was affordable. Atari 5200 Intellivision Colecovision joysticks Atari 2600
The 7800 was the first game system from Atari which was designed by an outside company (GCC ) (later consoles also designed outside the company were the and ). The system was designed to be upgraded to a fully-fledged home computer—a was developed, and the system had an expansion port (derived from the Atari 8-bit line's SIO port) for the addition of peripherals like and . GCC had also designed a 'high score cartridge,' a -backed cart designed for storing game scores. Unfortunately, Atari manufactured none of these accessories, and after the initial production run they also eliminated the expansion port. Atari Lynx Atari Jaguar keyboard disk drives printers battery RAM
The 7800 was launched in test market (southern ) in June of . One month later, Warner Communications sold Atari to , who believed (along with most of the country) that the video game fad was over. He pulled the plug on all projects related to video games and Atari's existing computer line to concentrate all efforts on development of the new 16-bit line (). The 7800 was re-introduced in after the success of the proved that the market was still viable. California 1984 Jack Tramiel Atari ST 1986 Nintendo Entertainment System video game
The 7800's technical superiority is debated still today. The architecture is essentially just an with a slightly better CPU and an advanced graphics chip (MARIA). While the system could handle far more moving objects on screen (up to 100) than any of its competitors, its audio capabilities were inferior. To compensate, some games (notably ports from the computer line) included a audio chip in the cartridge. The 7800 was also more difficult to program than other systems available at the time, though this was tempered by the fact that so many game programmers were already well versed in the 2600. Atari 2600 Atari 400/800 POKEY
The 7800 faced the severe software drought that would become the mark of all Atari consoles sold after the video game crash. Relatively few titles were released by Atari, many of them unpolished and lacking in features. And there was virtually no effort by Atari to recruit . third party developers
Screenshots