 
ADMISSION INFORMATION
AAs a general rule, you must be formally admitted to the Graduate School and must have completed the business foundation courses before you can take any of the professional program courses. Exceptions are possible; however, the MBA Program Director must approve them before you can attend class. If you are unsure which business foundation courses you need to complete, submit a copy of your undergraduate college transcript(s) to the program assistant for an evaluation.dmission to the MBA professional program requires formal admission to the Graduate School at The University of Montana. Enrollment may be limited to a size consistent with a quality graduate education.
can occur in any semester, although several 600-level courses scheduled in Spring Semester have Fall Semester prerequisites and cannot be taken if the student starts in the spring (i.e., FIN 681, MBA 603, MGMT 665 and MGMT 685). Students entering the Off-Campus MBA Program are required to have a recent generation microcomputer running Windows 2000 or later equipped with a CD-ROM drive, high-speed modem and Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 at a minimum. Also, students must have an e-mail address, as most correspondence with faculty and administrators is electronic. The recommended business applications software is Microsoft Office 2003 or later version (i.e. Office XP). Admission to the MBA professional program
A total of nine semester credits of MBA program elective credits may be taken as a graduate non-degree student prior to admission to the MBA Program. Since admission into the professional program allows students to start taking the core required classes, graduate non-degree work would only include MBA program elective courses. Some electives may have MBA-level prerequisites, so not all elective courses would be available to take as a graduate non-degree student.  Additionally, MBA program core (professional) courses cannot be taken prior to completion of all of the required business foundation courses.
Pre requisite business foundation courses
Students may apply to and be admitted into the MBA Program prior to completing the business foundation courses.  Business courses taken at institutions other than The University of Montana will be accepted if they are determined to be equivalent. 
Entry into the business foundation courses at UM requires either or status.  Graduate non-degree status is necessary in order to be eligible to register for the 500-level online courses and also gives the student access to the undergraduate-level business foundation courses. Students deciding on graduate non-degree status must select the "graduate non-degree program" during the application process.  graduate non-degree post-baccalaureate external
Post-baccalaureate status students can only register for the undergraduate business foundation courses. Required for both 500-level and undergraduate-level foundation courses is at least one semester of college-level mathematics and computer literacy, which encompasses a working knowledge of word-processing, spreadsheet and database skills.  
  ADMISSION CRITERIA
Admission will be judged on the basis of the applicant: 
Undergraduate GPA as well as the GPA for the last 60 university semester (or equivalent) credits completed.  We look for minimum GPAs of 3.00.
GMAT scores; see for specifics. GMAT Requirements