professional sports Boston Celtics cap Adidas
The most common adult-oriented merchandising is that related to teams (and their players). professional sports
A smaller niche in merchandising is the marketing of more adult-oriented products in connection with similarly adult-oriented films and TV shows. This is common especially with the and . (Examples: , ) Occasionally shows which were intended more for children find a following among adults, and you can see a bit of a crossover, with products from that show oriented towards both adults and children. ( ) science fiction horror genres Star Trek McFarlane Toys Gundam model kits
Sometimes a of non-media products can achieve enough recognition and respect that simply putting its name or images on a completely unrelated item can sell that item. (An example would be branded clothing.) brand Harley-Davidson
[] edit Promotional merchandising
Merchandising, as commonly used in marketing, means maximizing merchandise using , selection, , , and that stimulates consumers to spend more. This includes disciplines in pricing and , physical presentation of products and displays, and the decisions about which products should be presented to which customers at what time. sales product design packaging pricing display discounting
This annual cycle of merchandising differs between countries and even within them, particularly relating to like , and issues like and local and . cultural customs holidays seasonal climate sporting recreation
In the for example, the basic retail cycle begins in early January with merchandise for , which is not until mid-February. Following this, is the major holiday, while and -related merchandise is already arriving at stores, often as early as mid-winter. and are next, with gifts (typically small like ) often being marketed as "dads and grads" in June (though most end in May). Summer merchandise is next, including -themed products with the , out by in preparation for (with in between). By July, is on the shelves and autumn merchandise is already arriving, and at some stores, . By September, the summer merchandise is on final and of school supplies is marked-down some as well, and (and often even more of the Christmas) merchandise is appearing. As the Halloween and dwindle in October, Christmas is already being pushed on consumers, and by retailers are going full-force with , although the "official" season does not start until . Christmas clearance sales now begin even before Christmas at most retailers, and continue on to as little as or as long as February. United States Valentine's Day Easter springtime clothing garden Mothers Day Fathers Day graduation consumer electronics digital cameras semesters patriotic American flag Memorial Day Independence Day Flag Day back-to-school arts and crafts Christmas decorations closeout overstock Halloween decorations costumes the day afterward advertising the day after Thanksgiving New Year's Day
[] edit Trading industry
In Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia, the term merchandising is commonly used within the trading industry and denotes all marketing and sales stimulation activities around PoS (point of sale): design, creation, promotion, care and training of the sales staff.Basically merchandiser is the one who is continuously involve in business promotion by buying and selling of goods.
[] edit Retail supply chain
Walgreens Chicago
In the , merchandising is the practice of making products in retail outlets available to consumers, primarily by stocking shelves and displays. While this used to be done exclusively by the stores' employees, many retailers have found substantial savings in requiring it to be done by the manufacturer, vendor, or wholesaler that provides the products to the retail store. In the there are a number of organizations that supply merchandising services to support retail outlets with general stock replenishment and merchandising support in new stores. By doing this, retail stores have been able to substantially reduce the number of employees needed to run the store. While stocking shelves and building displays is often done when the product is delivered, it is increasingly a separate activity from delivering the product. In grocery stores, for example, almost all products delivered directly to the store from a manufacturer or wholesaler will be stocked by the manufacturer's/wholesaler's employee who is a full time merchandiser. Product categories where this is common are Beverage (all types, alcoholic and non-alcoholic), packaged baked goods (bread and pastries), magazines and books, and health and beauty products. For major food manufacturers in the beverage and baked goods industries, their merchandisers are often the single largest employee group within the company. For nationwide branded goods manufacturers such as The Coca-Cola Company and , their respective merchandiser work forces number in the thousands. supply chain United Kingdom PepsiCo