book cover
The Purpose Driven Life
(2002) is a devotional book written by author and published by . The book has been on the for advice books for one of the longest periods in history, while also becoming arguably one of the best-selling books of all time, topping the best seller charts as well as charts with over 30 million copies in print by 2006.The Purpose Driven Life Christian Rick Warren Zondervan New York Times Best Seller list non-fiction Wall Street Journal Publishers Weekly [1]
The book offers readers a 40-day personal spiritual journey, and presents what Warren says are 's five purposes for life on and describes itself as "a for Christian living in the 21st Century ... using over 1200 verses and quotes to challenge the conventional definitions of , , , and ." God human Earth blueprint Biblical Christian Worship Fellowship Discipleship Christian Ministry Evangelism
Contents
[] edit Content
The book is intended to be read as a daily inspiration, with each of the 40 short chapters read on consecutive days. Each chapter contains a personal application section at the end with a "point to ponder," a verse to remember, and a question to consider over the course of that day. Rick Warren described his book as an "anti-self-help book." The first sentence of the book reads, "It's not about you," and the remainder of the chapter goes on to explain how the quest for personal fulfillment, satisfaction, and meaning can only be found in understanding and doing what God placed you on Earth to do. The book's 40 chapters are divided into six major sections, with the following titles: [2] [3] [4]
What on Earth Am I Here For?
Purpose #1: You Were Planned for God's Pleasure (Worship)
Purpose #2: You Were Formed for God's Family (Fellowship)
Purpose #3: You Were Created to Become Like Christ (Discipleship)
Purpose #4: You Were Shaped for Serving God (Ministry)
Purpose #5: You Were Made for a Mission (Mission)
[] edit Impact
Since September 2002, over 30,000 , , and teams across the have participated in a "40 Days of Purpose" emphasis. A May 2005 survey of American pastors and ministers conducted by asked Christian leaders to identify what books were the most influential on their lives and ministries. The was the most frequent response. , Warren's previous book, was the second most frequent response. described the book as one that would "guide you to greatness- through living the Great Commandment and the of ." The book has been widely cited as being in the tradition of ' devotional guide decades earlier. congregations corporations sports United States [] citation needed George Barna Purpose Driven Life The Purpose Driven Church [5] Billy Graham Great Commission Jesus Oswald Chambers [] citation needed
[] edit Criticism
A Lutheran perspective is that Warren fails to present the evangelical Christian gospel accurately--failing to accurately represent the nature of , repentance and hell, as well as the blood sacrifice of God's son as the means to be forgiven by God for sins and which allows man to have a relationship with God. Warren has been accused of absolving his readers of moral responsibility by making Satan into an all-pervasive godlike figure contrary to both orthodox theology and psychological soundness. It has been suggested that when citing Scripture, Warren jumps from one Bible version to another, cherry-picking whichever paraphrase or translation supports whatever point he attempts to convey, although the practice of using translations selectively has been defended. Warren's statement that "Whenever God wanted to prepare someone for his purposes, he took forty days" has been criticized as both overly broad and contradicted by Scripture. Warren has also been accused of rejecting rational criticism of religion and asserting that morality derives exclusively from religion. sin Jesus [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12]
[] edit Ashley Smith
After hostage read Chapter 32 to her captor (who shot four people in on , ), the book hit number one on several religion and advice best-seller lists - including , , and . Smith admitted in her memoirs that she had also pacified her captor with . Smith says Nichols had her bound on her bed with masking tape and an extension cord. Smith says in her book that as the night wore on she tried and succeeded in winning Nichols trust by talking about her faith in God and relating to him her personal stories. Ashley Smith Brian Nichols Atlanta March 11 2005 The New York Times The Wall Street Journal USA Today Publishers Weekly crystal methamphetamine [13]