Learn about my GMAT prep strategy that  got me a 780 Score  and how it can benefit YOU.
What does it take to be a GMAT Winner?
If you think it is only knowledge that will make you a GMAT Winner,  think again.     
Knowledge can only take you so far! There are scores of Math graduates and even PhDs who have not managed to get a 99 percentile in the GMAT. Taking my own example. I am an Engineer by education and I had taught college level maths before taking my GMAT. However, I still managed to get only a 97 percentile in maths!! The point is that knowledge by itself is not sufficient to ace the GMAT. You need the other ‘intangible’ qualities & smart Studying Strategies to make the thing work. In this Website, I have attempted to share my  GMAT experience for your benefit.
Sign up for FREEWinningTips & get a Free Full Length GMATTest !!
        Enter your First name & Email and hit  GO!
Go through this 'Free' Website and :
Learn about the Common GMAT pitfalls and how to avoid them. Take a look at how to write the  'Perfect Essay' in the
AWA section. The complete lists of Idioms for the GMAT , a must for the Sentence Correction section.
1100 most common words appearing on the GMAT . The usage of Each word is explained with a sentence making it easier to learn. Feel confident in Verbal? How about a full length GMAT Verbal test
here . The GMAT Data Sufficiency section can prove to be very tricky at times. See how well you do on these typical GMAT DS problems
here. Have a look at the Essays that I wrote for INSEAD and my Essay Strategy. Why did I choose INSEAD MBA?  
Read here. Products for Sale on this Site
Ways of the GMAT Winners.  Learn how the Winners do it, first hand.
Winners' Guide to GMAT Math:  A comprehensive list of ALL  GMAT formulae in one place. With complete theory, and over 100 problems on the difficult areas of Probability, Permutations & Combinations.
Click here for the complete Product Range & Special Discounts How I went from 690 to 780
I must admit, the first time that I took the full GMAT test, I was very nervous. I had put in about a months preparation but just wasn't sure if I had studied the right way. At that time, I was teaching college level math so was not too worried about the quant section.   And I considered myself sufficiently prepared in Verbal as well. At the end of the exam however, I was shocked to see a score of just 690. Mind you, at this stage, I could have easily given up any chances of getting into a Top 10 school.  In fact this was one of those 'Turning Point' situations that separate the Winners from the also-rans. Instead of giving up and letting go, I decided to pursue my dreams with renewed vigour. Getting a below 700 score inspite of being well prepared was confidence shattering. Within me, I knew that if I could somehow make some changes in the way I study and  the way I think about the GMAT, I could get that winning edge that so many 'average' students had done. I sat down and thought really hard about how the Winners actually do it. I actually spoke to a few people who had done really well in the GMAT and requested them to take me through their study plans in detail, what they did, what they thought, which books they studies from and all the rest of it. One of the most important things I learnt was that at the 700+ level, the GMAT becomes a battle of the mind rather than knowledge. Most students at this level already know most of what they need to know, it is the inner battle they need to win from here onwards.
Click here to read on about  my GMAT Preparation strategy,  to  Learn about theBest GMAT Courses In the market
and which ones worked for me, and my D Day experience.
GMAT™ is a registered trademark of the Graduate Management Admission Council™. The Graduate Management Admission Council™ does not endorse, nor is it affiliated In any way with the owner or any content of this website.
:
:
Your E-Mail
When you sign up, you wil get  regular Tips to ace the GMAT & invaluable guidance for MBA admission. You will also get a Free Full Length GMAT Test with 700+ level questions. (We value your privacy, and will not lend, sell or give away
your email address.)