Prevention programs designed to reduce injury rates and increase power and performance.
 
SPORTS REHABILITATION ~
Our sports rehabilitation program pushes both the competitive and "weekend warrior" athletes to achieve goals so that they may return to the field, court or gym as quickly as is medically safe and appropriate. Our P.T.'s provide a close working relationship for prevention and proper conditioning necessary for sports.
 
Andy and Dawn Mattle of Physical Therapy Professionals, P.C. with Dr. Noyes of Sportsmetrics™
 
Are you at risk for a knee injury?
The Sports Injury Test measures several important factors such as an athlete's strength, coordination and body alignment. This compilation of tests compares the athlete's performance to a large research database of over 800 female athletes. The database is used to understand factors which may predispose an athlete to injury.
PROGRAM OPTIONS:
This scientifically proven, 6 week jump training program combines a dynamic warm-up, plyometrics, strength training and stretching. It is proven to help athletes significantly reduce the risk of serious knee injury, jump higher and improve hamstrings to quadriceps strength ratio.Sportsmetrics™ Techniques & Training:
This program is a shorter version of Techniques & Training. Taking only 20 minutes, it can be incorporated into existing conditioning and practice. This program also includes agility drills.Sportsmetrics™ WIPP - Warm-up for Injury Prevention and Performance Program:
Adapting the original Sportsmetrics™ program, Soccer focuses on soccer specific techniques and can be performed on the soccer field. In addition, this program includes agility and cardio drills.Sportsmetrics™ Soccer:
This program also adapts the original Sportsmetrics™ program and focuses on basketball techniques and is performed on the basketball court. This program also included agility and cardio drills.Sportsmetrics™ Basketball:
Utilizes the original Sportsmetrics™ Techniques & Training program as a one on one training program to return an injured athlete to peak performance after an injury.Sportsmetrics™ Return to Play:
 