File Online Tax, Ltd. Disclaimer
Disclaimer of Liability
Neither File Online Tax, Ltd., nor any of its employees, shall be held liable for any improper or incorrect use of the information described and/or contained herein and assumes no responsibility for anyone's use of the information. In no event shall this firm or its employees be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement or substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this system, even if advised of the possibility of such damage. This disclaimer of liability applies to any damages or injury, including but not limited to those caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, computer virus, communication line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, alteration of, or use of record, whether for breach of contract, tortious behavior, negligence or under any other cause of action.
Disclaimer of Warranties
Although the data found using this firm's access systems have been produced and processed from sources believed to be reliable, no warranty, expressed or implied, is made regarding accuracy, adequacy, completeness, reliability or usefulness of any information. This disclaimer applies to both isolated and aggregate uses of the information. The Firm provides this information on an "as is" basis. All warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, freedom from contamination by computer viruses and non-infringement of proprietary rights are disclaimed.
Changes may be made periodically to the information herein; these changes may or may not be incorporated in any new version of the publication. If you have obtained information from any of our web pages through a source other than our pages, be aware that electronic data can be altered subsequent to original distribution. Data can also quickly become out of date. It is recommended that careful attention be paid to the contents of any data associated with a file, and that the originator of the data or information be contacted with any questions regarding appropriate use. If you find any errors or omissions, we encourage you to report them to the Firm's webmaster.
 
| | | | | | |File Online Tax, Ltd. is not affiliated with the Internal Revenue Service or any state regulatory agencies. We offer the following services to our clients: online tax filing income tax filing file taxes online filing taxes online tax return preparation income tax preparation tax filing online
File your taxes online with Tax Filing Online, Ltd. Get fast refunds with our online tax filing.
 