 
WHAT EXACTLY IS NATURAL HOOF CARE YOU ASK??
Really, there is nothing “natural” about natural hoof care by a barefoot trimmer, natural hoof care practitioner or farrier. True natural hoof care is the wild horse moving about on all types of terrain, naturally trimming their feet in the environment they live on. The natural hoof care practitioner uses the wild horse as their model. Learn more on the wild horse hoof in . Natural Hoof Care
My goal, as a natural hoof care practitioner is to bring the knowledge I have gained through study of the wild horse, my training with the AANHCP, continuing education & research, and most importantly, my practical experience, to as many horses and horse owners as possible.
As a horse owner, natural hoof care practitioner and a Native American, my personal belief is that the Creator designed the hoof in a perfect way, to flex, expand and adapt to the environment they live on.
 
BUT, MY HORSE CAN’T GO BAREFOOT….  
I hear this almost daily, by owners who have been told this by various people such as trainers, farriers, veterinarians, or it is just their own personal belief.   The barefoot trim or natural trim is different than the traditional pasture trim. The hooves become stronger, build callous, concavity, and also strong digital cushion that increases blood flow in the hoof. This increased profusion of blood in the hoof is what helps build fiber cartilage in the back of the foot, which through research by Dr. Robert Bowker, DVM of MSU, is believed to help prevent or even heal problems such as laminitis and navicular syndrome.
Due to my own personal experience in taking my own horses with problem feet barefoot, and working on countless others, as well as using hoof boots when needed, so far -  I have not found a horse that cannot go barefoot !! Read more in . About Us
 
TRANSITIONING & HOOF BOOTS…
Today, with the improvement of hoof boots and also so many different types & styles of them on the market. Read more on ordering & using hoof boots in … Boots can help your horse can transition to barefoot, or if needed, using boots on a regular basis. Boots are now being used by riders in many different disciplines and types of terrain from eventing to barrel racing by choosing the right type and style of hoof boots that fit their needs. Read more in . Services Natural Hoof Care
 
MOUNTED POLICE DEPARTMENTS 
Mounted Police Departments in large metropolitan areas are turning to barefoot for not only the health of their horses, but also improving their traction and ability to go more places and do more in their jobs. To see more on . These horses are on the streets in various terrains, up to 6 or more hours per day either barefoot or in hoof boots. The City of Houston has 29 horses barefoot so far. Mounted Police, click here
 
BAREFOOT AS A LAST RESORT…
In the past few years, some horse owners who have become barefoot believers have used natural hoof care as a last resort to their horse being put down or retired to pasture due to various lameness problems & hoof diseases such as navicular & founder, and seeing amazing results. Horses that were deemed unusable are now being ridden again. While I can not guarantee that every horse will be healed, it has most definitely been successful when used by many owners who were diligent in trying one last thing to heal their horse. See . Testimonies
What I would like to see is more horse owners coming to us as natural hoof care practitioners and wanting a natural trim as part of their regular hoof care maintenance before their horses get to this point.
 
I’M STILL NOT CONVINCED HORSES CAN GO WITHOUT SHOES…
A good horse owner should be skeptical and check everything out.  There is a lot of research and information out there in books and websites (see ) about going barefoot.  You should be careful about who you choose as there are good barefoot trimmers and not so good ones just as there are good and bad farriers.  Be sure to ask your trimmer where they received their training, and they should also be able to explain what they are doing and why. Do your homework so you are familiar with what they are telling you.   links
More and more veterinarians and traditional farriers are turning to barefoot as they learn more about it. Don’t just believe what others say around you, check it out yourself. I am convinced that if everyone really took the time to learn about going barefoot and were open to trying it out, it would just make sense!