Filed under:     South Beach Diet
How many times have you said to yourself that you were going to eat better and work harder to lose weight and be healthier, only to fail again? If you are like most people you have probably lost track. This is because there are so many diet plans out there promising you miracles that dont work. All these diets do is set you up for failure.
They require the impossible. They make promises that are unrealistic and they tell you to make changes in your life that could never be achieved. This is why the only results you get are disappointments and depression. However, the South Beach Diet is different.
The South Beach Diet was designed by Dr. Arthur Agatston. He is a cardiologist that is very highly respected in his field. He wanted a way to help his patients become healthier and live longer happier lives and this is what motivated him to create the South Beach Diet. The fact that you lose weight with this diet is simply a huge benefit that is associated with eating right. This is the main reason why this diet is so much different form all the others.
It is based on real facts and it does not require you to do the impossible. This diet teaches you a new way of life when it comes to the foods you eat. You are not expected to starve yourself nearly to death nor are you expected to count every single carbohydrate you eat. You are not expected to eliminate everything good completely from your diet like many diet plans require. It is a realistic diet that anyone can adhere to with just a little willpower and self control.
The problem that most people have is that they eat too many bad carbohydrates and fats. When this happens, they get even hungrier than they were to begin with in a very short period of time. This causes them to eat again in only a few hours because they feel as if they are starving. This cycle leads to overeating, obesity and many other related health issues many of which can be life threaten. Once you learn how to take the bad carbohydrates and fats out of your diet or at least how to reduce the amount you eat, you will be on your way to a happier, healthier you.
Once you begin to eat right you will feel better and look better. With the South Beach Diet you will be able to lose up to 13 pounds by the end of phase 1, which is a two week period. The reason you can lose this much so fast is because phase one is used to sort of jump start your diet. You will be eliminating all carbohydrates from your diet during these 14 days. This will allow your body to regulate its blood sugar levels and help to stop the cravings you are having that were caused from eating all the bad carbs. It will also reduce the amount of water gain most people suffer with due to having so many carbohydrates in their diet.
During the phase 2 you will be able to add carbohydrates back to your diet but very slowly and moderately. In other words, you do not want to go back to you old eating habits but instead eat the foods you love in moderation. By reducing the amount of bad carbs and fats in your diet you will also be reducing the cravings for food and the desire to overeat. You will stay in phase 2 until you lose the amount of weight you want to lose and until you reach the point that you feel better.
At this time you will enter into phase 3 which is simply continuing to eat in moderation the way you have been training yourself to do in phase 2. This will allow you to maintain a healthy weight that you can be proud of. You will not feel like you are being deprived of the foods you love because you can still enjoy eating them, you just dont overindulge and eat the same foods day after day. You will never go hungry because this diet consists of three normal proportioned meals and two snacks a day. It is even flexible because you get to choose what you want to eat on any given day.
The South Beach Diet is the one that offers you everything you have been searching for. You have plenty of great foods to eat including your favorite desserts, you choose your own meals and you lose weight. All you have to do is have a little willpower to get the diet started and eat in moderation. What more could you ask for?
Bookmark This Page:These icons link to social bookmarking sites where readers can share and discover new web pages.
Related Information: