For more information on owning a franchise, please visit the official Sangster's Health Centres website .Sangster's Health Centres here
Franchising Tips and Facts
When considering a franchise, try to understand why they are offering you the business in the first place. Very often, franchising is an extremely quick low-risk method of expanding a successful business across the world. As a franchisee, you take on the majority of financial risk. In return the franchisor is offering a successful business formula that has been proven to work. But before you go ahead, ask yourself whether the support, training, stock, experience and brand name justifies the investment asked. Although the success rate for franchise-owned business is generally better than the success rate for many independent businesses, there is no franchise formula to guarantee victory. The same may also be said of the profits generated. Often the margins you make are a reflection of your ability to properly run your franchise, however you may be able to get a document from the franchisor that illustrates the typical franchise earnings. If the franchisor does not provide such a document, you should contact a number of franchisees in the market you are interested in and seek their advice on the business' profitability. franchises offer the franchisee a license or right to sell its goods or services and/or use its business techniques. The franchisees usually pay an initial fee to acquire this right, and thereafter pay a percentage of their gross sales to the franchisor throughout the term of their franchise contract. In return for these payments, franchisees gain priveleges, including the right to sell a proven and recognized product or service, to use the franchisor's business practices, and to receive initial training and ongoing support. Franchising is a way of doing business. It is a method and marketing tool for companies to expand their market share more rapidly and less expensively. Some companies, which are thought to be franchises, are in fact not franchises. All stores are owned and operated by the company itself Some examples of businesses that are not franchises are: Starbucks, Gap, Victoria's Secret. In addition to the initial investment required for a Franchise, you will also need money to sustain yourself, and the business, until it becomes cash positive. Remember, too, that projections may not be accurate. Market conditions can change and if it takes longer than originally anticipated for the new business to reach breakeven, you'd should have some emergency funds set aside, or it could mean the demise of an inherently sound business.Sangster's Health Centres
Sangster's Health CentresSangster's Health Centres
Sangster's Health Centres