Hobokens best kept secret
04/25/2008 Posted by ESanti1980
You have probably driven or walked by this place a million times and never knew what was inside. Everything from the continental cuisine to the chic decor makes this place one of my favorites. If you want to lounge or go out for a wonderful dinner. During the warmer months I like to sit in their outdoor seating and enjoy Hoboken.
Pros:Great value and service
Taste of NYC in Hoboken
02/29/2008 Posted by pclnyc17
this is such a cool spot. i've lived in hoboken for 2 years and this is a great addition to the nightlife. the 4 star martini is delish. great spot to go for a date or a classy night out in hoboken. the tapas are good, not too pricey either. i kind of want to keep the place a secret so it doesn't get as crowded as some of the other places in town!
Pros:classy scene, cool crowd
Great Customer Service
02/26/2008 Posted by rodimela
I threw an engagement party at Avenue, and was so impressed with the customer service. They were so accommodating and helpful...they made the night really special!!! Everyone loved it
1 out of 1 people found this review helpful
Greatest New Spot in Hoboken
12/17/2007 Posted by sarah_bg
I have my friends that live in hoboken and we are always looking for a trendy, relaxed place to go. We finally found it! Avenue bistro is a great place for awesome specialty drinks and a great dinner menu. The atmophere is great. Very relaxing and fun. The service was amazing as well. I would def. recommend this place for any manhattanites looking to get out of the city for the night!
Pros:atmosphere, drinks, double expresso vodka
1 out of 1 people found this review helpful
Great Bar!
12/10/2007 Posted by mereditheats
i have been coming to avenue bistro since it opened in Hoboken a few months ago. The drinks are great, the food is amazing, and the atmosphere is pretty sweet. I can finally dress up and go out to a lounge without having to go all the way up to 14th street!! Love the Flirtinis!!
Pros:Strong Drinks & Great Food
Cons:none!!
Editor's Review
Great food, fantastic drinks and a happening singles scene at this new Hoboken spot.  See the full editorial review.
Got a Tip?
Bar/Club Information for Avenue Bistro & Bar
Atmospheres