[] edit Life
In 1844 the British army served in the under . He spent his leave exploring the and once crossed into . Sikh War Sir Colin Campbell Himalaya Mountains Tibet
In 1854 he made his first voyage, joining the already famous on an expedition to . The expedition did not go well. The party was attacked and Burton and Speke were both severely wounded. Speke was captured and stabbed several times with spears before he was able to free himself and escape. Burton escaped with a javelin impaling both cheeks. Speke returned to England to recover and then served in the . Richard Francis Burton Somalia Crimean War
In 1856, Speke and Burton made a voyage to to find the which were rumoured to exist in the centre of the continent. Both men clearly hoped that their expedition would locate the source of the . The journey was extremely strenuous and both men fell ill from a variety of tropical diseases. Speke suffered severely when he became temporarily deaf after a beetle crawled into his ear and he had to remove it with a knife. He also later went temporarily blind. After an arduous journey the two became the first Europeans to discover (although Speke was still blind at this point and could not properly see the lake). They heard of a second lake in the area, but Burton was too sick to make the voyage. Speke thus went alone, and found the lake, which he christened . It was this lake which eventually proved to be the source of the river Nile. However, much of the expedition's survey equipment had been lost at this point and thus vital questions about the height and extent of the lake could not be answered. East Africa great lakes Nile Lake Tanganyika Lake Victoria
Routes taken by the expeditions of Burton and Speke (-1858) and Speke and Grant (1863).
1857
Speke returned to England before Burton, on 8 May 1859 and made their voyage famous in a speech to the where he claimed to have discovered the source of the Nile. When Burton returned on 21 May, he was angered by Speke's precipitous announcements believing that they violated an agreement that the two men would speak to the society together. A further rift was caused when Speke was chosen to lead a subsequent expedition without Burton. The two presented joint papers concerning the expedition to the on 13 June 1859. Royal Geographical Society [1] Royal Geographical Society [2]
Together with , Speke left from Zanzibar in October 1860. When they reached Grant travelled north and Speke continued his journey towards the West. Speke reached Lake Victoria on 28 July 1862 and then travelled on the west side around Lake Victoria without actually seeing much of it, but on the north side of the lake, Speke found the Nile flowing out of it and discovered the . Speke then sailed down the Nile and he was reunited with Grant. Next he travelled to in southern , where he met and his wife, continuing to , from which he sent a celebrated telegram to London: "The Nile is settled." James Augustus Grant Uganda Ripon Falls Gondokoro Sudan Samuel Baker Khartoum [3]
An obelisk dedicated to Speke stands in , London
Kensington Gardens
Speke's voyage did not resolve the issue, however. Burton claimed that because Speke had not followed the Nile from the place it flowed out of Lake Victoria to Gondokoro, he could not be sure they were the same river. A debate was planned between the two before the geographical section of the British Association in Bath on 18 September 1864, but Speke died that morning from a self-inflicted gun-shot wound while hunting at in Wiltshire. An inquest concluded that the death was accidental, a conclusion supported by his only biographer, though the idea of suicide has appealed to some. Speke was buried in , Somerset, the ancestral home of the Speke family. [4] Neston Park [5] Dowlish Wake [6]
[] edit Controversy
The film (1990) (starring Scottish actor as Speke) related the story of the Burton-Speke controversy. The film hints at a sexual intimacy between Burton and Speke. It also vaguely portrays Speke as a closeted homosexual. This was based on the William Harrison novel , which explicitly portrays Speke as homosexual and Burton as rampantly heterosexual. Mountains of the Moon Iain Glen Burton and Speke[] citation needed
in the , was named in honour of John Speke, as an early European explorer of this region. Mount Speke Ruwenzori Range Uganda
[] edit Biographies and books about Speke
by Alexander Maitland (1971) (the only full-length biography).Speke
by William Harrison (St Martins/Marek & W.H. Allen 1984).Burton and Speke
by (London, 1864)A Walk Across Africa J. A. Grant
by Clare Lloyd. (Study of 18th Century Natural History - Includes , , and ) Contains colour and black and white reproductions.The Travelling Naturalists Charles Waterton John Hannington Speke Henry Seebohm Mary Kingsley [7]