Contact Us / Directions
 The Ultimate in Indoor Golf awaits you atDigital Links LLC.  Imagine being able to work on your golf game playing some of the worlds top courses in the comfort of our 72 degree facility using your own clubs, balls and tees, regardless of the weather outside.  Transcend thousands of miles in seconds as you and your friends play courses you've only dreamed about, likePebble Beach, St. Andrews, The Belfry& more using state of the art technology
Whether you're a scratch golfer or a novice, you'll stay brushed up on your game regardless of the season and get some much needed stress relief.  You'll feel the exhilaration of sinking that birdie, as well as the pain of hitting the trees, landing out of bounds or dropping the ball in the water.  Play 18 holes by yourself in about 45 minutes to an hour, or bring your friends for more fun.
 The Digital Links facility features 2 ParTGolf Double Eagle Elite +4 Simulators, 4 High Definition LCD Televisions with DVD players throughout the building, as well as a Bar to wet your whistle with Pop, Water, Beer & Wine.  We currently serve Heggies Pizzas, appetizers, and snacks to keep you in the game.
Play Augusta National -
Want a chance at your very own green jacket?  We are now one of the only simulators in the world to feature Augusta National... It looks, feels, and plays just like the real thing.  Better leave yourself some extra time, sticking that ball on the green is just as difficult as the real deal.
Gift Certificates -want to give the golfer you love the perfect Christmas or Birthday gift?  Forget the ties, socks and clever pencil holders and get them something they will actual enjoy this winter, DIGITAL LINKS INDOOR GOLF!  You can pick one up at our facility or purchase it right here.  We can even ship them directly to the recipient if you'd like.  Give us a call at 651-480-0504 and we can take your major credit card over the phone.  We will ship the certificate to you or the person of your choice, along with a brochure.  We ship the same day you pay, so you're guaranteed to get it fast, or feel free to pick it up at our facility.
Parties -we host the absolute best birthday, bachelor and corporate parties around!  We can handle up to 45 people at a time and there is fun for everyone.  You'll want to schedule the event in advance to guarantee availability.  Bulk discounts available for advanced purchases.  We have fun for everyone.   
Hours
Fri - Saturday     10am-midnight
Sunday              8am-8pm
 Note: we will open as early as 7am with 12 hours advance notice.  We may close early if no tee times are scheduled 2hrs prior to closing
  Available Courses
We now have over 120 golf courses available, and new software that makes this the most realistic indoor golf experience you've ever had! Here are some of our favorites...
Augusta National - Georgia USA