Entertaining Maps Relevant to the Discussion
SLOW LOADING GRAPHICS PAGE...  GO GET COFFEE!
Disclaimer: These maps are for entertainment use only!
Do not use for navigation purposes!Here are some interesting historical views of Earth's shape, FOR ENTERTAINMENT PURPOSES ONLY.  They are not in chronological order and the descriptions are, for the most part, as we found it.  The majority represent views only because these are the more entertaining views.  Please do infer that these represent a comprehensive collection of all views.  They are meant to imply a widely held incorrect views of the Earth!  In fact, some represent minority opinions.  We just found them to be interesting and hope you do as well.Real Disclaimer:incorrectNOTnot
Images are used with permission and most come from a   administered by . and hosted by .  At the bottom of this page, you will find an excellent list of cartography sites, mostly derived from this project for which we are most grateful! map research project [] 1 Jim Siebold Henry Davis Consulting
The Biblical View of the Earth
The Ancient Hebrew Conception of the Universe (from Robinson, 1913, p. 13)
World view according to Homer, prior to 900 B.C.
The Homeric conception of the world represented as a flat, circular disc of land surrounded by a continuous ocean-stream remained a popular notion in the Greek world even after many philosophers and scientists had accepted the theory of the sphericity of the earth enunciated by the Pythagoreans and subjected to theoretical proof by Aristotle. In this interpretation the world is like a plateau on the top of a mountain; inside this, close to the surface of the earth, lies the House of Hades, the realm of Death, and beneath it Tartarus, the realm of Eternal Darkness. The plateau of the earth is surrounded by Oceanus, the world river, and from its periphery rises the fixed dome of the sky. The sun, the moon, and the stars rise from the waters at the edge of the dome, move in an arc above the earth, and then sink once again into the sea to complete their course beneath the Oceanus. The atmosphere above the mountain of the earth is thick with clouds and mist, but higher up is the clear Æther with its starry ceiling.  [] 1
World according to Anaximenes of Miletu (6 th century B.C.)
The earth was of irregular quadrangular form, in consequence of its pressing it down like the lid of a vessel. This concept consists of a rectangular world supported by compressed air. Shown here is the Mediterranean Sea and a circumfluent Ocean Sea. He maintained also that the sun and stars did not descend beneath the earth, and rise again at its other extremity, which appears to have been the prevalent doctrine in his day, but that they were carried around the earth, at a great distance, and that the light of the sun was intercepted during the night by high mountains.  [] 1
Psalter mappamundi, 1225 A.D. (oriented with East at the top)
The outstandingly beautiful Psalter Map, thought by some to have been a copy of the great mappa mundi at Westminster Palace, shows all the features we would expect from the later great Hugh of St Victor maps such as the Ebstorf Map, the Duchy of Cornwall Map and the Hereford Map itself.  These include angels and fantastic creatures decorating the map, with the terrestrial paradise placed at the top of the map, closest to God, and Jerusalem at the very centre.  The outlines of the continents have by now become rather vague, and possibly even unimportant.  It is a beautifully decorated work of art and would scarcely have been used for navigational purposes.  [] 2
Detail of Africa, Hereford mappamundi, 1290,
(from facsimile, oriented with East at the top)
The most conspicuous feature in Africa is the blue band of the Nile running parallel with the ocean. The river begins as a lake near Mount Hesperus and apparently ends as a lake, but it submerges to reappear as the Lower Nile, forming Africa's eastern boundary. Behind the blue band of the river is a to indicate the existence of primitive peoples.  Huge ants guard golden sand. dig up gold and guard it.  sleep with eyes open, an example to the Christian to be vigilant. Agriophani Ethiopes eat only the flesh of panthers and lions they have a king with only . The Blemyae have . (Isidore and Solinus); a wild Ethiopian race frequently invading Egypt.  A race of dual sex born with many strange instincts. (Solinus; Mela; Isidore). Himantopodes; they rather than walk they try to proceed by sliding rather than by taking steps.  Maritime Ethiopians who have .  A fed through a reed.   Psylli test the chastity wives by (Solinus).  Legitimate babies are untouched by the serpents.  The is threateningly near.grim array of grotesque figuresAntsLionsone eye in his foreheadmouths and eyes on their breastscreep with crawling legsfour eyesmouthless raceexposing their new-born children to serpentsburning mountain full of serpentsThe best pictorial collection of monsters are in The Marvels of the East by M.R. James (Roxburghe Club), 1929.  [] 1
Cosmas Indicopleustes' Tabernacle World View, , 6th centuryChristian Topography
Tabernacle world view in the Christian Topography, Cosmas Indicopleustes, 6th century.  Found in the writings of Saint Paul that there was a passage which could be interpreted to mean that the Tabernacle was a picture of the world, it was quite natural for the Church Fathers to envision the world as a vast tabernacle: a tent with a rectangular base, twice as long as it was broad, and with an arched roof supported by for pillars. Both prophets and apostles, says Cosmas, agree that the Tabernacle was a true copy of the universe, the express image of the visible world.  The has been preserved in two copies: one a parchment manuscript of the 10th century belonging to thChristian Topographye Laurentian Library in Florence, and containing the whole work except the last leaf; the other, a very fine uncial manuscript of the 8th or 9th century, belonging to the Vatican Library, and containing sketches drawn by Cosmas himself, but wanting entirely the twelfth book, which is the last.   [] 1
 
Redrawing of Cosmas Indicopleustes' world picture, 6 th century in the Christian Topography
The world of Cosmas, about 548 A.D., was patterned after a Tabernacle.  For great rivers who source was in the Biblical Paradise supply the waters of all the Earth.  [] 1
Cosmas Indicopleustes' world picture, 6 th century in the Christian Topography
The heavens come downward to us in four walls, which, at their lower sides, are welded to the four sides of the earth beyond ocean, each to each.  The upper side of the northern wall; at the summit of heaven, curves around and over, till it unites with the upper side of the southern wall, and thus forms, in the shape of an oblong vault, the canopy of heaven, which Cosmas likens to the vaulted roof of a bathroom.  Cosmas' cartography was heavily "Christianized" as evidenced by the many religious themes and references incorporated in and even dominating many of the surviving maps.  Both philosophically and cartographically Cosmas' ideas were strictly dictated by his literal interpretationof the Bible. [] 1
Woodcut depicting view of flat world
Commonly used woodcut which depicts a flat earth and domed sky containing the stars.  Many may recognize this as the cover to Boorstin's book .The Discoverers
Portolan [nautical] Chart, Pietro Vesconte mappamundi, ca. 1320 (oriented with East at the top)
The world maps made by the European Church Fathers were a legacy taken over from the ancient world, and they were gradually expanded and adapted in accordance with the texts which they accompanied. Among the first maps in Christian Europe to reveal a new character are those by Pietro Vesconte. Some consider him as the first professional cartographer to sign and date his works regularly. He produced chiefly sea-charts, and his world maps betray his experience in that field.  As can be seen in the world maps he drew around 1320 he introduced a heretofore unseen accuracy in the outline of the lands surrounding the Mediterranean and Black Sea, probably because they were taken from the portolan [nautical] charts. [] 1
St. Isidore, Bishop of Seville (570-636 A.D.) T-O maps (translated) fromEtymologies
St. Isomer, Bishop of Seville (570-636 A.D.) T-O map drawing
Showing the Antipodes under his typical T-O map.
St. Sever World Map after Beatus, 1030 A.D. (from Raisz)
(oriented with East at the top)
World Map, Henry of Mainz,  ca.1110 A.D.
oriented with East at the top
The map shown in this monograph is to be found in the of a certain Henry, probably the same person as Henry [Heinrich], a Canon of the Church of St. Mary in Mayence [Mainz], who in 1111 A.D. appeared before the Episcopal Court of Mainz; possibly he is the same as the Archbishop Henry, who ruled this church between 1142 and 1152. In any case, the map accompanies a work which was written about 1110 A.D.De imagine mundi
Armillary sphere
Atlas bearing the heavens in the form of an armillary sphere from William Cunningham, , London 1559. The verse at the bottom of the engraving is from Book I of Virgil's , in which Atlas is referred to as a teacher of astronomy.The Cosmographicall GlasseAeneid
The cosmos of the Zetetics.
Picture © 1992 by Robert Schadewald
According to Charles K. Johnson, president of the International Flat Earth Research Society, "One thing we know for sure about this world...the known inhabited world is Flat, Level, a Plain World.  nbsp; The Fact the Earth is Flat is not my opinion, it is a Proved Fact.  Also demonstrated Sun and Moon are about 3,000 miles away are both 32 miles across. The Planets are 'tiny.' Sun and Moon do Move, earth does NOT move, whirl, spin or gyrate."  Johnson continues, "You can't orbit a flat earth.  The Space Shuttle is a joke--and a very ludicrous joke."  [] 4
Other Great Cartography Sites: