Photos of Beaches
Anaheim, California Travel Information is California's top tourist destination. Attracting over 15 million people each year, families and friends come to experience the Magic Kingdom, character breakfasts, and the Southern California beaches that are within reach of this Orange County, California city. While many have ventured to Disney World Orlando, the gem is the original Disneyland. While it is a bit smaller than its younger counterpart, the thing people love about the theme park is the California climate. Mostly sunny, mostly pleasant and missing the incredible storms, humidity and bugs Florida recognizes, Southern California weather is just more enjoyable, making your trip to Anaheim and stay in its hotels a delight. With numerous Best Western hotels, Marriotts and other chains, you'll find a hotel room or suite in a price range that suits your needs. Surrounding the theme park in Anaheim are around 200 hotels, and be sure to check out adjoining city, Garden Grove, for other nearby Disneyland hotel options. In addition to the theme park, Anaheim Convention Center hosts many meetings and conventions throughout the year. The music industry, medical and sports cars are a few. Hotels adjoin the convention center building (Hilton and Marriott), allowing for a quick wake up call, hop in the shower, and off you go to your early morning meeting within five minutes of arrival. If you're visiting Anaheim, Disneyland, the Convention Center, or taking in a night on the town at House of Blues in Downtown Disney, there are enough hotels with walking distance to make your life a whole lot easier. And one of our favorite amenities is the bus service that drives around to hotels, picking up guests for day trips to Universal Studios Hollywood. Very cool! Buses and trains connect you to L.A. and San Diego for the day, as well. And for the beach, there are buses and a beach train that runs in the summer, connecting guests to the beach--though some train schedules actually take Anaheim guests to San Clemente beaches.