Why Diets Don't Work (...And How Diets Can Make You Put On Even More Weight!)
Stop!  
Before you start on your next diet, you really must read on to find out how diets can actually do you more harm than good...
But first let me share with you a story.
"I just don't understand it!", screamed Jennifer.  
"This latest diet of mine seemed to be going so well.  I lost a couple of pounds within the first 3 days alone, and another couple more during the next week or so..."
"...but then it's like I hit a brick wall.  The weight loss just stopped all of a sudden!  I stuck to the diet but I still hit a weight loss plateau, and I can't overcome it!"
"And that wasn't even the worst part!  Anyway, I figured after hitting the plateau that the diet can't help me to lose any more weight so I stopped and took myself off the diet."
"A few weeks went by and then I nearly got the shock of my life.  I jumped onto the scales again and found that not only had I put back on all the weight I had lost during the diet, I had piled on another 3 more pounds on top of that!  And I wasn't even overeating during this period after the diet!", sighed an exasperated Jennifer.
Do you find the story familiar?  Have you heard a similar one before?  Or worse still, do you have the same story as Jennifer?
It's time you learn the truth about diets, so here it is... 
Diets do NOT work.
Well actually, it wouldn't be so bad if that's all there is to it.  
But here's the frightening part: Not only do diets fail to help you to lose weight, they can even cause you to after you get off the diet!put on even more weight
Here's why...
When most people think of the word "diet", they think that it means a short-term program where one eats a special kind of meal in order to lose weight.  
More often than not, diets have you eating low-calorie meals or meal replacements.  So what do a lot of women do?  They end up avoiding the fatty foods, carbohydrates and desserts (basically all the stuff we all love), and munch on a couple of carrots and celery sticks, steamed vegetables and other fruits (i.e. stuff we can just barely tolerate).  all
And the portions are tiny!
Now here's the problem: Your body is really smart.  It knows how to take care of itself.  And at its most basic level, that means doing its best to keep you alive.  
But what does all that have to do with dieting?
You see, if you cut down drastically on the amount of food you take, your body's natural defense mechanism will kick in.  Your body thinks there's a famine and that you're going to starve soon, so it'll lower your body's metabolism to make better use of the fewer calories being consumed.  
That's why a lot of people who go on diets find that after a while, they stop losing weight even though they are still on the same low-calorie diet.  Your body has gotten used to the decreased amount of calories being consumed, and this is when you hit the dreaded "weight loss plateau". 
And the worst thing is, once you go off the diet and eat your "normal" food, your body is still in starvation mode and it'll store as much of the extra calories as fat as it can.  
What happens is your body's defense mechanism looks at the increased amount of calories being consumed and it thinks to itself that this is only temporary and that the current "good times" can't last.  Sooner or later the calories will get reduced again, so it had better store away the "extra" calories as fat around your body to ensure it'll have a reserve of energy to tide you through the next "famine".
That's why once they get off their diets, many people put on all the weight they had lost, and more!
So please, don't even think of going on any of these fad low-calorie diets.  We all know that we should control our meal portions.  But just because we shouldn't OVEReat doesn't mean we should UNDEReat, right?  
And the next time you see the word "diet", remember that it simply means "what you eat".  To lose weight permanently, we definitely need to watch what we eat.  And just as importantly, we need to make sure that we don't starve ourselves by eating too little.  That's just not an effective way for permanent weight loss.
So please, do not go on any "diets".  You'll probably lose more weight this way!
 
Main Menu
It's not just plain coincidence that women over 40 face more problems than younger women when it comes to weight loss.  Before you learn the weight loss methods that work for you, find out what makes you different and why you face more problems when you're trying to lose weight...   Why Face More Problems
Your body's metabolism rate naturally slows down as you age. This means your body is less efficient at "burning" fat now than it was when you were younger, causing you to put on the pounds as a result. Learn why this is so, and what you can do to increase metabolism... Slower Metabolism
You've just had a decent lunch not too long ago, and you know you shouldn't be eating too much sweet stuff... but why is it that all you can think of is that plate of pasta and another slice of the delicious chocolate cake? Here's why you keep getting those food cravings, and how you can get rid of the cravings and feel full throughout the day... Food Cravings
You tell yourself that you're going to start on a weight loss routine, but find that throughout the entire process your body seems to have a mind of its own -- it just doesn't listen to you and the body fat keeps increasing! For many women over 40, it may be that you're suffering from hormone imbalance or estrogen dominance. Find out how estrogen dominance causes weight gain, and learn some safe and simple solutions you can use immediately... Hormone Imbalance, Hormonal Changes and Mood Swings
If you managed to lose some weight but then found yourself stuck at the same weight for some time, you've hit the dreaded "weight loss plateau". Find out what causes this, and what you can do to overcome weight loss plateaus easily. Plateaus
Did you know that instead of helping you to lose weight, diets can in fact make you put on even more weight?  Before you go on your next diet, read this to learn how diets can actually do you more harm than good! Why Diets Don't Work
What is progesterone? Why is there so much interest in natural progesterone now? But more importantly, find out how natural progesterone can help you in weight loss... Progesterone
You probably know that fiber helps to regulate bowel movements, but do you know that fiber also helps with weight loss? Fiber
If you aren't burning fat effectively, the fat will build up and get stored in your body. L-Carnitine helps in your body's fat burning activities, and it makes exercise less of a pain... L-Carnitine
Chromium reduces insulin insensitivity, so it helps to prevent excess glucose being converted into fat. Learn how chromium picolinate can help you gain more lean body mass and decrease your amount of body fat... Chromium Picolinate
When you consume too much carbohydrates, the extra carbohydrates are then converted into body fat. Discover how garcinia cambogia can help you to suppress your appetite and inhibit fat production so that less fat gets stored in your body... Garcinia Cambogia
Have you ever dreamt of losing weight while you sleep?  I've got good news for you...  Sleeping can help you in your weight loss program! Sleep and Lose Weight?
Here are some other useful articles that can help you attain your weight loss success... Weight Loss Articles
Want to know how the latest happenings in the weight loss industry can affect you?  Is there something new in the market that can speed up your fat loss program?  If I find out anything worth reporting to you, it'll be in my blog.  Go check it out! Weight Loss for Women Over 40 Blog
 
Email us at and we'll do our best to answer any questions you have... We're here to help!Got a question on weight loss for women over 40?
Main Menu