This site is dedicated to providing important information to asbestos disease & mesothelioma patients and their families, so that they will be able to make educated decisions about how to proceed in terms of filing a claim. You may have only ONE CHANCE to do it right, so make sure that you have all of the information about mesothelioma that you need before you do anything else...WELCOME
 
Hear Art's Story
Art Schoble was a client of The Maune Raichle Law Firm. Hear his thoughts about the service he received and what he thinks of The Maune Raichle Law Firm.
 
Hear Rollie's Story
Rollie Barrett was a client of The Maune Raichle Law Firm. His case was resolved in 8 months. Hear his thoughts about the service he received and what he thinks of The Maune Raichle Law Firm.
Click to hear Rollie's story
We concentrate our entire practice on mesothelioma cases. Our firm was formed when Marcus Raichle, Jr. left SimmonsCooper LLC to form The Maune Raichle Law Firm with Neil Maune, another experienced mesothelioma attorney. While at SimmonsCooper LLC and The Simmons Law Firm, Marcus Raichle's experience included representing the plaintiff in the largest single mesothelioma verdict in the United States; a $250 million verdict against U.S. Steel. His experience also includes a $34 million verdict and countless large settlements in mesothelioma cases.EXPERIENCE
 
 
Deciding who should represent you and your case is one of the most critically important decisions that you might ever make, and could mean the difference between success and failure. You need, and are entitled to, an experienced mesothelioma attorney who has a track record of success in mesothelioma lawsuits on your side through the entire claim process. You also should expect personal service and individuals committed to your case. We will meet you personally and immediately in your home or office. Let us show you why we are best suited to represent you in a mesothelioma case.MESOTHELIOMA ATTORNEY CHOICES
 
click to enlarge
FREE BOOK ON MESOTHELIOMA
We often get results in seven months or less. We can help you protect your family and get the compensation you deserve. Call The Maune Raichle Law Firm:
1-800-358-5922
Free book on mesothelioma treatment.
Please submit your information below.
Name: