  Many studies demonstrate that cancer incidence and mortalitypatterns among Asian Americans are heterogeneous, but nationalstatistics on cancer for Asian ethnic groups are not routinelyavailable. This article summarizes data on cancer incidence,mortality, risk factors, and screening for 5 of the largestAsian American ethnic groups in California. California has thelargest Asian American population of any state and makes specialefforts to collect health information for ethnic minority populations.We restricted our analysis to the 4 most common cancers (prostate,breast, lung, colon/rectum) and for the 3 sites known to bemore common in Asian Americans (stomach, liver, cervix). Cancerincidence and mortality were summarized for 5 Asian Americanethnic groups in California in order of population size (Chinese,Filipino, Vietnamese, Korean, and Japanese). Chinese Americanshad among the lowest incidence and death rate from all cancercombined; however, Chinese women had the highest lung cancerdeath rate. Filipinos had the highest incidence and death ratefrom prostate cancer and the highest death rate from femalebreast cancer. Vietnamese had among the highest incidence anddeath rates from liver, lung, and cervical cancer. Korean menand women had by far the highest incidence and mortality ratesfrom stomach cancer. Japanese experienced the highest incidenceand death rates from colorectal cancer and among the highestdeath rates from breast and prostate cancer. Variations in cancerrisk factors were also observed and were for the most part consistentwith variations in cancer incidence and mortality. Differencesin cancer burden among Asian American ethnic groups should beconsidered in the clinical setting and in cancer control planning.   Cancer is a major public health problem among all racial andethnic groups in the United States. Although Asian Americansand Pacific Islanders have lower incidence and mortality ratesfrom all cancers combined than all other racial/ethnic groups,the pattern of cancers within Asian American ethnic groups isdistinctive and is an important cause of suffering and death.Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are the only major USracial/ethnic group for which the annual number of deaths fromcancer exceeds that for heart disease. Although Asian Americansare at lower risk for cancers of the lung, colon and rectum,breast, and prostate, they have higher rates of cancers relatedto infectious conditions, particularly tumors of the cervix,stomach, liver, and nasopharynx.   No national cancer incidence, mortality, or risk factor dataare available for Asian American ethnic groups. Data that areavailable for this population are from some of the Surveillance,Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) regions, including thestates of California and Hawaii. Most incidence data and national-levelmortality data are available only for all Asian/Pacific Islandergroups combined. The SEER program provided data on cancer incidencefor selected Asian subgroups for the time period 1988 to 1992in a Special Report, which has not yet been updated. Up until1999, the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), which isthe major national source of data on cancer risk factors andscreening, reported data for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanderscombined; since 1999, data have been reported separately forAsian Americans and for Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders.   Modern Asian immigration began in the 1800s, when first Chineseand later Japanese, Filipino, Korean, and Indian workers wererecruited to work on plantations and farms in Hawaii and California.Various Exclusion Acts limited other forms of immigration byAsians until 1965, when discrimination based on country of originwas prohibited. Immigration to the United States has increasedsteadily since then. The number of total immigrants admittedas legal permanent residents to the United States increasedfrom 841,000 in 2000 to 1.1 million in 2005.    Historically, Asian immigrants settled predominately in theWest, but this trend has changed as the proportion of AsianAmericans settling in the Northeast and other regions has increased.About half of all Asians still live in the West, mostly concentratedin California. New York, Texas, and Hawaii have the next largestnumber of Asian Americans (). In the 2000 US Census,the overall Asian population represented 4.2% (11.9 million)of the US total population. Given current trends, Asian Americansare projected to comprise 8% (33.4 million) of the total populationby 2050, triple the percentage in 2000.   Asian American ethnic groups vary substantially with respectto demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. The medianage of various ethnic groups of Asian Americans in 2000 rangedfrom 16.3 to 42.6 years, with Japanese being on average theoldest and Hmong the youngest (). The Hmong are amongthe most recent immigrants and have the largest average householdsize. This is also observed for the Vietnamese, Cambodian, andLaotian populations. Because of the limited numbers of recentimmigrants, Japanese Americans are the most acculturated,have the highest socioeconomic status, and the smallest averagehousehold size. Filipino, Chinese, and Koreans are intermediatewith respect to the average time since immigration, householdsize, and median age ().        Chinese Americans in California have high rates for colorectal,liver, and lung cancer compared with other Asian ethnic groups.Chinese males had the third highest incidence and mortalityrates (per 100,000 population) for colorectal cancer among theAsian ethnic groups (52.2 and 18.2, respectively) ().The colorectal cancer incidence and mortality rates for Chinesefemales were the second highest, with the age-standardized incidencerate per 100,000 (41.5) being similar to that for non-HispanicWhite females (42.8) (). Although colorectal cancer rateswere high for both Chinese men and women, their prevalence ofendoscopic colorectal cancer screening within the past 5 years,while higher that most other Asian ethnic groups, was only 40.3%for men and 41.5% for women (). The high rate of colorectalcancer among Chinese in California contrasts sharply with thelow risks in China, and the increase in risk with time sincemigration implicates behaviors associated with the Western lifestyle.    The incidence and mortality rates (per 100,000 population) forliver cancer among Chinese men in California (23.3 and 19.9,respectively) are more than twice as high as in Japanese men(9.3 and 8.3, respectively) (). Hepatitis B virus (HBV)infection, which is more prevalent in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa,is the main cause of liver cancer in developing countries, whilehepatitis C, alcoholic cirrhosis, and obesity are more commoncauses of liver cancer in developed countries such as the UnitedStates and Japan. Worldwide, over 80% of liver cancer casesoccur in developing countries, with China alone accounting forover 55% of the total cases. In fact, China has the ninthhighest incidence rate of liver cancer among males worldwide().  Chinese women have the second highest lung cancer incidencerate (29.8/100,000) and the highest lung cancer mortality rate(23.9/100,000) of all the Asian ethnic groups in California(). Their high rates of lung cancer are unexpected, giventhe low prevalence of smoking among Chinese women in California.According to CHIS data, only 2.2% of Chinese women report thatthey were current smokers, and only 5.4% were former smokers(). Chinese American women are commonly exposed to secondhandsmoke at home and at the work site. Exposure to cookingoil from high-temperature frying may contribute to lung cancerrisk among Chinese women in the United States, as it has beenproposed to do in China. Lung cancer incidence among womenin China (19.0/100,000) ranks as the ninth highest worldwide(). Indoor cooking and heating with coal has been linkedto the high lung cancer incidence and mortality among Chinesewomen in China, but this is an extremely uncommonexposure in the United States.  Screening for colorectal and prostate cancer is less commonamong Chinese men than non-Hispanic White men, but more commonthan among other Asian ethnic groups, except Japanese men. Screeningfor cervical, breast, and colorectal cancer among Chinese womenis substantially less common than in non-Hispanic White andJapanese women ().    Compared with the other Asian ethnic groups, Filipino womenhad the second highest incidence (102.4/100,000) and the highestmortality (17.5/100,000) rate for breast cancer (). Overweightand obesity are established risk factors for postmenopausalbreast cancer. The percentage (33.5%) of Filipino women whoare overweight was higher than that of any other Asian ethnicgroup (). Acculturation and adoption of Westernized dietsand behaviors may contribute to the high breast cancer burdenamong Filipino women. The percentage of Filipino women who hada mammogram in the past year (61.1%) was similar to that fornon-Hispanic White women (61.7%) ().