Community Resources
The following is a listing of community resources available through the many Public Health programs.
The Center offers HIV testing and treatment services for the local community, as well as consulting for local health providers. The Center for HIV Prevention and Care
The Commission is the County's primary public advisory body on the HIV/AIDS issues, responsible for planning HIV treatment and care services, allocating public funds, reviewing local HIV prevention efforts, advocating for persons living with HIV disease and developing responses to local needs. Commission on AIDS
A variety of public health programs, aimed at prevention of disease and promotion of health, are provided to the local community by Community Health Services. Community Health Services
An important part of public health preparedness is a community educated about how to be prepared in the event of an emergency, so we can take steps to minimize the potential danger, damage and disruption for us, our families and our community. Community Preparedness
Public Health maintains current data on many health issues of interest to the local community. Data and Reports
Healthy Kids Sonoma County is a communitywide effort working to create and finance a system of accessible, affordable healthcare coverage for all Sonoma County children. Healthy Kids Sonoma County
The health action council works on improving health and health care for all Sonoma County residents. Health Action
The Department of Health Services has launched a Medi-Cal managed care planning process, in response to the January 2005 California DHS Medi-Cal Redesign Plan that calls for the expanded use of managed care within the Medi-Cal program. Managed Medi-Cal Planning Group
This program helps consumers save money on their prescriptions that are not covered by insurance. Prescription Discount Card: Sonoma Rx
The public health clinics provide reproductive health testing and services, and family and travel immunizations. Services are provided with an emphasis on standards of excellence in health care. Public Health Clinics
There are a variety of volunteer opportunities available throughout Sonoma County. From The Center for HIV Prevention and Care and The Commission on AIDS, to community-based agencies and local congregations - we all need your help! Volunteer Opportunities