A Biblically based commentary on current issues that impactyou
The Gospel: A Method or a Message?
How the Purpose Driven Life Obscures the Gospel
by Bob DeWaay
 
i>For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well-pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe.()1Corinthians 1:21
A few months ago a friend phoned to ask if I had ever heard of Rick Warren. esI replied. hy are you asking He said, just got kicked out of a Bible Study for bringing my Bible to it.That is how the idea for this article came to me.
The Bible study my friend attended was really a study group. The Purpose Driven Life book they were studying referenced Bible passages that sounded off base. He was told that if he was going to attend the study, he would have to leave his Bible at home, because the issues he brought up were disruptive to the group. He chose to quit instead.Purpose Driven Life
My first reaction was that the study group was just poorly led.A few days later my friend gave me the book to read for myself. In the first three pages I saw why bringing a real Bible would disrupt a group studying Rick Warren. First, Warren cited many questionable Bible translations, often without verse reference. Apart from that, one had to locate the reference (information buried in the back of the book), find the reference in a real Bible, go back to the place where Warren used the passage to see if the quoted ranslationhad any resemblance to the passage from an acceptable text, and make a decision about whether the verse in question supported Warren claim.Of course, that would disrupt a Bible study. Forty days of purpose would soon be forty !thenmonths
Rick Warren eleven million copy bestseller has replaced Bible preaching in thousands of pulpits and has replaced the Bible in many thousands of Bible study groups. His website claims he is starting a new Reformation. His claim is that rather than reform what the church teaches like Luther did, Warren is going to reform what the church does. He is well on his way. Warren has turned the Gospel of Jesus Christ into a method. The method is to invite people on a forty day journey to discover the meaning of life.Warren students are asked to take an oath before a witness (which Jesus forbids) to turn forty days of their life over to Rick Warren and his method.And there is more.1
In this article I will show that Warren book teaches an approach to the gospel that is not Biblical. His teaching is in keeping with popular, American, evangelical pietism so it is no wonder most evangelicals cannot see what is wrong with it. It comes from a stream of theology that can be traced back to Charles Finney who popularized a methodological ow toapproach to the gospel that puts spiritual revival in the hands of man to work at will. In doing so neither the message nor the method of Jesus Christ and His apostles is followed. To help show the difference between Warren method and the gospel message I will cite John MacArthur book which explains the unadulterated gospel better than any book I have recently read. There is a chasm between the teachings of Warren and those of MacArthur. They cannot both be right. Let begin.Hard to Believe2
This is Not about YOU, or is it?
Rick Warren begins the first day of his journey by saying, t not about you(Warren: 17). Yet the entire book eelslike it about you and reads like self-help literature. He dedicates the book to ouon the first page after the copyright information and uses the pronoun oucontinually throughout the book. Consider the following from day eight:is
were planned for God pleasure. The moment were born into the world God was there as an unseen witness, at birth. He wanted alive, and arrival gave him great pleasure. God did not to create , but he to create for his own enjoyment. . . . Bringing enjoyment to God, living for his pleasure, is the first purpose of life. When fully understand this truth, will never again have a problem with feeling insignificant. It proves . If are important to God, and he considers valuable enough to keep with him for eternity, what greater significance could have? (Warren: 63). (Italics in original; bold emphasis mine)Youyousmilingyouryouyourneedyouchoseyouyouryouyouyour worthyouthatyouyou
His statement that this is not about ouis disingenuous (insincere). His style, word usage, Man-centeredness, distorted Bible translations, and many overt statements show that the book about you!is
Here is one more example of how obtrusive the personal pronoun ouis in Warren writing:
unspoken life metaphor influences life more than realize. It determines expectations, values, relationships, goals, and priorities. For instance, if think life is a party, primary value in life will be . If see life as a race, will value and will probably be in a hurry much of time. If view life as a marathon, will value . If see life as a battle or a game, will be very important to (Warren: 42). (italics in original; bold emphasis mine)Youryouryouyouryouryouryouryouryouyourhaving funyouyouspeedyouryouyouenduranceyouwinningyou
Here we have sixteen instances of ouor ourin one short paragraph. Notice also how Warren speaks what is no more than his own personal opinion as if it were God truth. He claims a ife metaphordetermines much of who we are. By what authority does he make such a claim? This is nothing but human wisdom. Warren started out this section saying, he way you your life your life. How you define life determines your destiny(Warren 41). Why should I believe these statements? Warren speaks from his own self as if he were God authoritative spokesperson. This is Christianized humanism. Our thoughts and metaphors have nothing to do with the gospel. We need to deny self, not set up the right thoughts and life metaphors to assure a wonderful destiny.seeshapes
In researching this article, I had to read Warren for long periods of time.This was difficult for me.I found his material disturbing.To cleanse my mind from Warren continual assaults on my thinking I took breaks to read John MacArthur MacArthur got my mind and heart back on the gospel and away from me (where Warren keeps wanting to put it). Let me do the same for my readers.Listen to MacArthur version of what to do with OUHard To Believe.
Jesus set the standard as total self-denial. In Luke 14:26, a great multitude was following Him and He turned and spoke to them: f anyone comes to Memeaning those who wanted to be His true followersand does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple.Self-hate? What a powerful truth!. . . Following Jesus is not about you and me. Being a Christian is not about us; it not about our self-esteem. It about our being sick of our sin and our desperation for forgiveness (MacArthur: 10).
MacArthur points us to the clear teachings of Jesus, not some questionable idea that a ife metaphordetermines our destiny.We need to die to self, not discover self.
Warren would have us believe that something is furry, meow, has four legs, and likes to chase mice, but is not a cat. He tells us that his book is not about ouand then spends over three hundred pages making it about you, over and over. This doesn just look like self-help, read like self-help, sound like self-help and feel like self-help, it self-help and it about you. That doesn help me. I need the gospel to solve my sin problem.isisI don need Warren aphorismsnd certainly not thousands of them.
The User Friendly Gospel: Warren Wide Gate
Rick Warren gospel is never clearly described. Here is one of his statements about it: od won ask about your religious background or doctrinal views. The only thing that will matter is, did you accept what Jesus did for you and did you learn to love and trust him?(Warren: 34). But, doctrine does matter because our doctrine of Christ determines whether we believe in the Christ of the Bible or the Christ of Mormonism or some other religion.
John MacArthur hard-hitting book, on the other hand, makes the gospel clear, powerful, and unmistakable. John MacArthur puts forward the claims of Christ in His own words so that the reader is faced with the offense of the cross in unmistakable terms. Writes MacArthur, ee seen that the frequent solution for making the message more popular and appealing is to distort and misrepresent the gospel by pumping up the easy parts and downplaying or ignoring the hard parts(MacArthur: 201). Though MacArthur is not speaking of Warren, MacArthur could not have described Warren method more clearly. Warren book does contain many Biblical truths. Missing, however, are many necessary key truths. Subtracting key issues from the gospel changes its essence.
Warren discusses eternity on day four of his spiritual journey and uses it to introduce his version of the gospel. He tells his forty day pilgrims, f you learn to love and trust God Son, Jesus, you will be invited to spend the rest of eternity with him. On the other hand, if you reject his love, forgiveness, and salvation, you will spend eternity apart from God forever(Warren: 37). Though he never explains the wrath of God against sin, the blood atonement, or the need for repentance (not in the context of the gospel that is), at least he acknowledges there is a hell. Warren is to be commended for including the possibility of being lost.
Let us consider how he presents the gospel: f you learn to love and trust God Son . . .It is true that we must love and trust Christ, but this is not how Christ or His apostles presented the gospel. They did not suggest that one has to earn to love Jesus,implying that were He just dressed up better He would be more lovable. Here is how Jesus said it, i>And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God,and saying, he time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand; repent and believe in the gospel (). Warren is typical of eeper lifeteachers who teach asy believismto enter the Christian life and consider the claims of Christ to be options for those who want to be orld class Christians(Warren: 297). Warren does not mention repentance until he gets to a chapter called ow we grow(Warren: 182). Jesus (), Peter (), and Paul () commanded people to repent as terms of entrance into the kingdom, not as a special teaching for elite Christians. Repentance is part of the Great Commission: i>He said to them, hus it is written, that the Christ should suffer and rise again from the dead the third day;and that repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in His name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem().Mark 1:14,15Mark 1:14, 15Acts 2:38Acts 17:30Luke 24:46, 47
Learning to love Jesus (whose person and work is never clearly explained by Warren) sounds so inviting. Repenting in order to flee the wrath of God against sin just doesn sell in today religious climate. Warren makes another gospel invitation on page 58: ight now, God is inviting you to live for his glory by fulfilling the purposes he made you for.Warren makes believing very easy: ll you need to do is and (Warren: 58). He asks, ill you accept God offer?(Warren: 58). After urging his readers to believe God chose them and receive the Holy Spirit for power to ulfill your life purpose(Warren 58), he offers a little prayer that will save people. According to Warren, here is how you are saved: invite you to bow your head and quietly whisper the prayer that will change your eternity, i>Jesus, I believe in you and I receive you.Then he makes this promise, f you sincerely meant that prayer congratulations! Welcome to the family of God!(Warren: 59). Say a little prayer and believe in a Jesus whose person and work have not been clearly explained to you and you will be saved, or so Warren says.receivebelieve
This is not the narrow gate that Jesus mentioned in Matthew 7. MacArthur warns about Warren sort of teaching, ccording to lots of churches and preachers, the answer is to popularize the gospel: get rid of all this slaying-yourself and carrying-your-cross stuff, and get a decent band up there on stage(MacArthur: 12). This is in a section about the narrow gate. MacArthur continues, istening to a seeker-sensitive evangelical preacher today, wee likely to think it easy to be a Christian. Just say these little words, pray this little prayer, and poof! youe in the club.(MacArthur: 12). This is exactly what Warren suggested as the gospel, ray this little prayer.
Do you suppose Stephen would have been martyred had he told his audience, od loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life, just say this little prayer and you will find out for yourself Here is what Stephen preached: i>You men who are stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears are always resisting the Holy Spirit; you are doing just as your fathers did. Which one of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who had previously announced the coming of the Righteous One, whose betrayers and murderers you have now become; you who received the law as ordained by angels, and yet did not keep it(). After citing the history of Israel from the Old Testament, Stephen brought his listeners face to face with Messiah and the fact that they had refused to listen to Him. They needed circumcised hearts! (Moses promised a circumcised heart in ). They needed to be converted by God grace and embrace the Messiah they had betrayed. They killed Stephen instead.Stephen is honored in the Bible. He knew nothing of the Warren version of the gospel.Acts 7:51_53Deuteronomy 30:6
The problem is that the user-friendly gospel is giving people false assurance. MacArthur explains, eople are breezing through those wide, comfortable, inviting gates with all their baggage, their self-needs, their self-esteem, and their desire for fulfillment and self-satisfaction. And the most horrible thing about it is they think theye going to heaven(MacArthur: 13). Warren skips many things, including the blood atonement, the doctrine of justification, the wrath of God against sin, a clear presentation of the person and work of Christ, and the need for repentance as part of the gospel. He replaces all these things with a personal journey to find one purpose. No wonder millions are entering the broad gate that he offers. Warren claims that we find our true self, MacArthur says that our true self is so wicked and perverted that it must die. MacArthur writes, ut start preaching the gospel, the hard words of Jesus that call for total and absolute self-denialhe recognition that wee worth nothing, commendable for nothing, and that nothing in us is worth salvagingnd that a lot less popular(MacArthur 14, 15). What we have is the narrow gate and the wide one, they lead to entirely different destinies.true
How Warren Bible Perversions Thwart Bereans
Earlier I mentioned that reading and checking it out with the Bible is a tedious task. Let me illustrate this using one of Warren Bible references.Here is Warren quote, he Bible says, elf-help is no help at all. Self-sacrifice is the way, my way, to finding yourself, your true self (Warren: 19).There is an endnote that takes us to the back of the book. Once there, looking for endnote 3, we have to figure out which of the forty days we are in. So with one finger in the endnote section, we go back to where we started to find out we were in day one. Now we go back to the end note section for day one and find out the reference is to Msg. Assuming that msg is not the food additive, we proceed to the section in the back of the book that tells us the meaning of the abbreviations, and we find out that it is from a Bible called . Now, having determined what passage is under consideration, we get out a real Bible (not a paraphrase) and find out what says. Here it is: i>For whoever wishes to save his life shall lose it; but whoever loses his life for My sake shall find it().The Purpose Driven LifeMatthew 16:25The MessageMatthew 16:25Matthew 16:25
Now we need to compare with perversion of it. In the context, Jesus was speaking of dying to self by taking up one cross ().The cross was not a burden to bear, but an executioner device. A person seen carrying his cross had literally been sentenced to death and was on the way to the place where he would be executed. So the person who oses his lifeis the one who has died to all hopes and dreams that the elfever had in this life. He is willing to suffer the loss of everything, even life itself if need be, for the sake of the gospel. His reward is eternal life. The person who considers the things of this life more important than the cross shall lose his life eternally. He has made the things of this life more important than his eternal soul. We are either willing to die to everything through the cross and gain eternal life, or we will cling to the things of this sinful world and gain hell.Matthew 16:25The MessageMatthew 16:24
Having established the meaning of in context, now we must return to the verse as cited by Warren: elf-help is no help at all. Self-sacrifice is the way, my way, to finding yourself, your true self. is not discussing self-help, it is discussing life and death. is not discussing inding your true self.The idea of a rue selfis a term of psychology and is not found in the Bible. is not talking about self-sacrifice, it is talking about dying to self. About the passage John MacArthur says this, t not about exalting me, it about me. It the death of self. You win by losing, you live by dying. Andthat is the heart message of the gospel(MacArthur: 5). Warren version of the passage suggests that by self-sacrifice we find our rue selves.All false religions teach self-sacrifice, and finding one true self is a New Age lie. The truth of the gospel is that we must die to self through the cross and put all of our hope in Christ by faith in His finished work.Matthew 16:25Matthew 16:25Matthew 16:25Matthew 16:25slaying
Now, having established that does not even have the same concepts as the Biblical passage it claims to be a paraphrase of, let return to Warren book and see how Warren uses it. He uses it to show that we need to find out the purposes God created us for. He says, t is about becoming what created you to be(Warren: 19). Now we have been Bereans, searched the Scriptures, and found that Warren is abusing them. He has obscured the clear gospel message in Matthew 16:24, 25 and replaced it with a spiritual journey to find the rue self.So Warren ostensibly is telling us we do not need self-help and then sends us on a self-sacrificing journey to find our true self (which is self-help). This man is the master of confusing his readers.The MessageGod
Wow! What a lot of work it is to be a Berean when reading Warren. It took all of that effort to get through two paragraphs. The same process is necessary several times on every page. It is not possible to get through the forty day process in forty days unless you take forty days of vacation from work and spend an entire work day trying to figure out if the Bible actually supports his claims. The alternative, of course, is that you give up and just read the book as it is, trusting Warren multitude of questionable Bible versions. Now I see why my friend got kicked out of a Warren iblestudy. Checking out Warren with the Bible would disrupt and correct a Warren studynd they never finish in forty days!
After working on Warren for nearly three months, I finally gave up myself. The last ten chapters I read without looking up the references in the back or consulting a real Bible or checking to see if his claims were supported. I needed to get this article written. By that time I decided not to trust anything Warren said unless I knew before hand that it was the truth. My guess is that about fifty percent of his Bible citations are totally distorted (i.e. the translation is that bad) and a real Bible would not support the point Warren is making. Many of these versions take God-centered passages and make them man centered.
To show that the abuse of is not an isolated incidence, let us consider the passage Warren uses on the un-numbered cover page of his book where he dedicates it to ou.Here is the passage he cites: t in Christ that we find out who we are and what we are living for. Long before we first heard of Christ, . . . he had his eye on us, had designs on us for glorious living, part of the overall purpose he is working out in everything and everyone(Ephesians 1:11 Msg. as cited by Warren). Here is what a real Bible says: i>also we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to His purpose who works all things after the counsel of His will().First of all let us consider to whom Paul is speaking. It is clear from the context of Ephesians 1 the emeans believers, not people in general. Warren is writing to people in general. He tells his readers that if they do not have a relationship with Jesus he will explain later how to have one (Warren: 20), which shows he is not writing just to Christians. Furthermore, Warren iblesays, e find out who we are.This suits his motif of a spiritual journey of self-discovery. But the real says nothing about finding out who we are. It tells us that Christians have obtained an inheritance. Warren version does not even mention that concept. It says, e had his eye on us.The Bible says that Christians were redestined according to His purpose.The pseudo-translation used by Warren does not even have the concept of predestination. The real Bible teaches God sovereign purposes as the ground of the believer hope, and assures us that God comprehensive sovereignty means that nothing can thwart God eternal purposes. Warren iblecitation obscures this truth and implies universalism in the way he applies it.Matthew 16:25Ephesians 1:11Ephesians 1:11
It is sinful to claim to speak authoritatively for God when one is not. It is sinful to add to or take away from God Word. One cannot introduce a statement he Bible saysand then cite what the Bible does not say.Warren does this many times. The paraphrased Bibles he uses are often not even legitimate paraphrases. To paraphrase is to say the same thing in different words. When one says something totally different conceptually, then those words have no relationship to the meaning of the original author. To do this with the Bible is forbidden (). To claim the weight of infallible, inerrant inspiration and use this to teach concepts totally unrelated to those of the Biblical authors is to take the Lord name in vain. Warren does this often.Deuteronomy 4:2; Revelation 22:18, 19
Here is one more example of this practice. Warren says, od motive for creating you was his love. The Bible says, i>Long before he laid down the earth foundations, he had us in mind, and had settled on us as the focus of his love (Warren: 24). The endnote reference tells us this is Ephesians 1:4a from . Here is the NASB: i>just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world.Warren addresses all people (remember he has not yet told people how to become Christian). Since he applies this indiscriminately to all, his use of the paraphrase means that God love is ocusedon all people. The real Ephesians 1:4a does not mention love, but God act of choosing. The phrase, e chose us in Him,obviously only applies only to the elect, not everyone in general. makes the passage seem man-centered (ettled on us as the focus of his love, whereas the Bible makes the passage God-centered (e chose us in Him. does not even mention Christ but mentions stwice.The MessageThe MessageThe Message
Trying to analyze Warren theology is difficult because he never clearly states it. Apparently he is saying that God elected all people in general. Since it is clear Warren is not a universalist (Warren: 37), he seems to be saying that God elected everyone.Then our choices n-electus if we do not make a decision for Christ (another of his distortions of the gospel).He writes, elieve God has chosen you to have a relationship with Jesus, who died on the cross for you(Warren: 58). Why should an unbeliever believe that God had chosen him before repenting and turning to God in faith? On what basis do we know we are God elect? Surely we cannot know this on the basis that we are human beings. If Warren wants to deny predestination and election, he should just have the courage to deny these doctrines, not hide them under perverted Bible translations. This is really bad theology.
We have seen how hard it is for Warren readers to search the Scriptures like the Bereans. He has made it very difficult to find out that he is abusing the Bible. He has cited some of the worst English translations of the Bible ever devised, even calling very loose paraphrases, he Bible,when they are not.
We need some MacArthur at this point to cleanse our mind of Warren confusion. We saw what Warren did with the doctrines of election and predestination. MacArthur summarizes Jesusteachings in John 4:37_44:
Jesus was affirming the great truth of the doctrine of election: when the Father chooses, the Father teaches; when the Father teaches, they learn; when they learn, they're drawn; when they're drawn, they come, when they come, Jesus receives them; when He receives them, He keeps them; when He keeps them, He raises them to eternal life. And then the Father's purpose is accomplished. (MacArthur: 175)
Whether or not one agrees with MacArthur, one always knows what he teaches and why. Warren never does make it clear what he is teaching on this matter. His book confuses nearly every issue it addresses.
American Pietism
On the surface, Warren promotes a very rigorous version of Christianity. He calls for total surrender as the way to the eeperlife (Warren: 82, 83). He distinguishes between orldlyand orld-classChristians (Warren: 297). He tells his readers to do many things to make themselves better Christians. Most of it comes down to making choices and working harder at following Warren teachings. In his teaching both salvation and sanctification are synergistic (i.e. man and God working together). Thus our part boils down to methods for being more holy. Warren says, piritual growth is a collaborative effort between you and the Holy Spirit(Warren: 180).He says, ecide to be a disciple(Warren: 180).He says concerning salvation, od will give you what you need if you just make a choice to live for him(Warren: 58). Yet again Warren says, hristlikeness is the result of making choices and depending on his Spirit to help you fulfill those choices(Warren: 180).
Many Christians will see nothing wrong with this teaching because they have been taught similar material most of their lives; but it is what the Bible teaches. According to the Bible, one begins and continues in the Christian faith by grace through faithnd that grace is solely of God. Synergism was a key issue at the Reformation, with the Roman Catholic Church promoting man and God working together (synergism) and the Reformers teaching God working alone (monergism). Salvation is a work of God, not a cooperative effort between God and man. Becoming Christlike is not a matter of making the right choices, but a matter of trusting God through the gracious means He has providedut right choices result. God is sovereign both in salvation and sanctification: i>For whom He foreknew, He also predestined to become conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the first-born among many brethren; and whom He predestined, these He also called; and whom He called, these He also justified; and whom He justified, these He also glorified(Romans 8:29, 30). Paul asks, i>Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?().notGalatians 3:3
Pietism as expressed by Warren and many others looks for ecretsto a deeper life through rigorous religious ritual or practices. He offers an easy way into the Christian life (make a choice and pray this little prayer) and then makes the teachings of Jesus about dying to self and carrying one cross a higher level of Christian living for the truly pious. Jesus made these things part of the terms of salvation (see the story of the rich young ruler). The practice of offering easy believism for salvation and then presenting the claims of Christ Lordship later as advancement in the Christian life, MacArthur calls ait and switch(MacArthur: 17).Warren commands his readers to do things God never asks of them. He makes things God commands (like repenting and believing the gospel) a choice, and things that are choices (like writing a journal Warren: 222, 308, 309) commands. Thus he perverts the gospel and the Christian life. Why should any of us submit to his man-made pietism? Rick Warren is not God lawgiver.
Mysticism
Mysticism usually goes hand and hand with pietism wherever it exists. When people promote ecrets for the deeper life,they generally claim to have received them by some divine revelation. These secrets often involve prayer techniques that help someone hear from God. True to form, Warren offers these in (Warren: 88) where he states, racticing the presence of God is a skill(Warren: 89). This mystical approach is borrowed from some versions of Roman Catholicism.Practicing the Presence of God
Warren also promotes reath prayerswhich are endless repetitions of short phrases (Warren: 89). Jesus forbids this type of prayer: i>And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition, as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words(). It is a pagan practice that has the effect of shutting down the mind. Warren suggests that God will share His secrets with us if we follow Warren techniques (Warren: 91). He promises that the meditative techniques he promotes will et God speak to you(Warren: 91). He says, n the next chapter we will see four more secrets of cultivating a friendship with God(Warren: 91).Matthew 6:7
There are no such secrets. There are the things revealed which are clearly taught in the Scriptures, and the secret things that belong to God alone (). Secret, spiritual knowledge and techniques for gaining such knowledge are called ivinationin the Bible and are forbidden. The way to be a friend of God is through repenting and believing the gospel; it is not by practicing mystical religious techniques. MacArthur says, hus in the inspired word of the Bible, and only there, we have the mind of God and the mind of Christ(MacArthur: 212).Deuteronomy 29:29
Do Not have a Bible Study, Have a Warren Study
Rick Warren makes an amazing claim. He writes, he thing many believers need today is to go to another Bible study. They already know far more than they are putting into practice(Warren: 231). This shows that his deeper life pietism is an alternative to the means of grace provided in Scripture. The Word of God a gracious means by which God changes us. Warren reduces the Bible to an instruction manual, a how to live a better life guideline. In that sort of thinking we should stop progress until we have mastered everything learned so far. But that is what the Bible says.The Word of God changes us progressively.As we study we have our minds renewed and our faith strengthened. If we must put into practice what we learn before we study more we would never study the Bible again after reading this verse: i>Therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect(). According to Warren logic, if we know that verse, we know more than we are putting into practice and we should not go to another Bible study.lastisnotMatthew 5:48
Later in his book we learn why Warren warns against Bible study for those who are not perfect: he has an alternative! urge you to gather a small group of friends and form a Purpose-Driven Life Reading Group to review these chapters on a weekly basis(Warren: 307). We are to have a Warren study to replace the Bible study. The amazing thing is that thousands and thousands of groups around the world have taken Warren advice and began studying his book, leaving their Bibles at home. Pastors are preaching from Warren materials rather than God Word. Warren also says, fter you have gone through this book together as a group, you might consider studying other purpose-driven life studies that are available for classes and groups(Warren: 307). The message of the gospel has been replaced with the method of Rick Warren. The Bible has been supplanted by the wisdom of man.strongly
In contrast to this, MacArthur, explaining Paul words in 2Corinthians 4, says, e will not walk in , in trickery, adulterating the Word of God, tampering with the gospel to make it less offensive, in order for men to commend us. Instead, we will be faithful to the gospel, manifesting the truth in order to commend ourselves to every man conscience, with God watching(MacArthur: 49). When we add unbiblical human methods and subtract essential aspects of the gospel, we adulterate it. That is exactly what Rick Warren has done.panourgia
Syrupy Sentimentality
Warren terminology to describe God provides a picture of God as a kindly grandfather who gushes with warm, fuzzy feelings. For example, he has a chapter that tells us what makes God smile. He uses Noah as an example. He writes, ut there was one man who made God smile. The Bible says, oah was a pleasure to the Lord (Warren: 69). This is a citation of from the Living Bible. Again the paraphrase turns a verse that is God-centered into one that is man-centered. The NASB says, i>But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.The Bible tells what Noah received from God. The poor translation Warren uses makes Noah the agent and God the recipient. The NKJV is more pointed: i>But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD(). In the Biblical account God gives grace to Noah, in Warren account Noah gives pleasure to God. Here is how Warren interprets : od said, his guy brings me pleasure. He makes me smile. Il start over with his family (Warren 69). He twists to promote his man-centered theology and obscure the fact that it was God grace that made Noah who he was.Genesis 6:8Genesis 6:8; NKJVGenesis 6:8Genesis 6:8
Warren continually tells us what God feels when we do certain things. He says, ike a proud parent, God especially enjoys watching you use the talents and abilities he has given you(Warren: 74). He also says, ou only bring him enjoyment by being you(Warren 75). Somehow Warren knows a cause and effect relationship between various things we do and God emotions. He says, od even enjoys watching you sleep!(Warren 75). He has discovered six to being best friend of God(Warren: 87).secrets
Warren explanation of God leaves out many important truths and emphasizes those qualities that make God feel close and safe. This does not result in a full, Biblical understanding of God. You will never hear about God wrath against sin from Warren. You will never hear the warnings in the Bible about God coming judgment. You will not learn about God holiness from Warren. You will not hear passages like this: i>See to it that you do not refuse Him who is speaking. For if those did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less shall we escape who turn away from Him who warns from heaven().Hebrews 12:25
The Bible teaches that God does not change. All of God attributes are always His in their full perfection at all times. God continually is merciful and just. His wrath against sin coexists with His mercy toward those who repent and believe the Gospel. Warren sentimentality makes God seem dependant on man for His happiness. The author of Hebrews continues: i>Therefore, since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe; for our God is a consuming fire(). Making God appear to be like a doting parent gaining happiness from watching his or her kid play softball does not do justice to the Biblical portrayal of the nature of God.Hebrews 12:28, 29
Theologically this constitutes over emphasizing God immanence at the expense of His transcendence. This tendency is the hallmark of theological liberalism. The Bible teaches that both are true of God. For example this passage teaches both:i>For thus says the high and exalted One Who lives forever, whose name is Holy, dwell on a high and holy place, And also with the contrite and lowly of spirit In order to revive the spirit of the lowly And to revive the heart of the contrite (). By never referencing passages about God being holy and separate from sinners, we gain a skewed understanding of God nature.Isaiah 57:15
Conclusion
In 1982 Robert Schuller announced his plans for a new reformation based on self_esteem. His stated purpose was to make theology less God-centered and more man-centered. Now that Rick Warren has sold eleven million copies of the , he too wants a new reformation. He is promoting a PEACE plan to solve the world five biggest problems. pparently, the church needs a new reformation every twenty years. What happened to Schuller reformation?3Purpose Driven Life4
Thinking about this and carefully studying Warren book, I have come to the conclusion that Rick Warren is completely in step with Schuller reformation, and is carrying it forward in a way that is more appealing to evangelicals (whether or not he is consciously following Schuller). Warren man-centered theology comes with more evangelical ideas than does Schuller. Warren includes many more Biblical truths than Schuller ever did. In my opinion this makes Warren more deceptive than Schuller. Schuller ignored the Bible and depended on psychological concepts. Warren uses perverted Bible translations that change God-centered passages to man-centered passages.By carefully selecting the right mistranslation for each of his teaching points he has made the man-centered theology touted by Schuller Biblical.seem
Now Warren wants to reform the church to focus on social action rather than gospel preaching. Wow! Look how far we have come. One of these times this man-centered reformation will succeed. When it does the modern evangelical church will be the latest incarnation of liberalism.5
Each of us must choose between a man-centered, man-made method loosely derived from parts of the Bible and the clear message of the gospel. Rick Warren promotes the former, a broad path with millions of fellow travelers; John MacArthur promotes the latter, a narrow path that few follow.
The gospel is based on a crucified Jewish Messiah, a concept offensive to all sinners. However, to those who embrace the scandal of the cross and by faith escape the just wrath of God, that gospel is the power of God for salvation. Dear reader, you have a choice between a spiritual journey to discover your purpose and the message of the gospel that declares God purposes. The one will make you think you are on the path to heaven when you may not be, the other will put you on the path to heaven by God sovereign power.I urge you to embrace the gospel on God terms.
Issue 80 - January/February 2004
End Notes
Rick Warren, , (Zondervan: Grand Rapids, 2002); Warren says that his book is, A] guide to a that will enable you to discover the answer to life most important question: What on earth am I here for; 9.The Purpose Driven Life40_day spiritual journey
John MacArthur, ; (Thomas Nelson: Nashville, 2003) From here on in this article I will reference Warren and MacArthur according to this protocol: (MacArthur: 23). All references are to and unless noted otherwise.Hard to Believe The High Cost and Infinite Value of Following JesusThe Purpose Driven LifeHard to Believe
Robert Schuller, Self-Esteem: The New Reformation, (Waco, Word Books, 1982).
(on his website as of 2_2_04). http://www.saddleback.com/home/todaystory.asp?id=6213
See which traces Robert Schuller to early 20 century liberalism. The seeker sensitive version of the church growth movement finds its inspiration from Schuller. http://www.twincityfellowship.com/cic/articles/issue56.htm th
Published by Twin City Fellowship Critical Issues Commentary P.O. Box 26127 St. Louis Park, MN 55426 952-935-3100 Unless otherwise noted, all Scriptures taken from the New American Standard Bible, © Copyright 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1988, 1995 The Lockman Foundation.