New Benefits ADDED!
Even MORE benefits are to be found INSIDE the members only area! These are just the tip of the Iceberg.
, the only magazine dedicated to the specialized interests of working mobile entertainers. You'll receive one subscription free with a FULL ADJA membership. Existing subscribers will receive an extension.Mobile Beat DJ MAGAZINE subscription
Mobile Beat
ADJA has partnered with NFX, to bring our members another great deal on gear. ADJA members that present their membership number & documentation of membership will receive a 10% discount on NFX's already rock bottom prices. NFX also is an active participant in the ADJA's educational programs both at the chapter level & in our webinars.Exclusive discount with NorthernLightFX
Information on ADJA (and non-ADJA member) insurance may be obtained by calling R.V. Nuccio and Associates, Inc located in Burbank, CA at 1-800-567-2685 or you may for insurance program information. Liability & equipment coverage underwritten by Fireman's Fund (A Rated). Million dollar liability insurance for only . Sign up anytime, always 12 months of coverage.(no taxes or hidden charges but you must be a paid ADJA member to receive this discounted rate). See our for more details.Liability and Property Insurance
click here $175.00 for an entire year of coverage insurance section
ADJA members receive 10% discount from Music supply company. Place an order (800) 775-3472 or visit their site. CD's, remix compilations, DVD's and practically any type of music available through The Source. Please use member code: ADJA10 when checking out.10% off all CD's, Remixes and Music DVD's for all ADJA members!
THE SOURCE http://www.thesourceformusic.com
The ADJA is working to build it's membership so we may advertise in magazines, newspapers and online. Our goal is to deliver accurate information to the consumer so they make an educated decision when hiring a professional disc jockey. We are also working on a letter-writing campaign to correct misinformation previously published and build awareness of what a professional disc jockey offers. Recent ADJA articles, interviews and acknowledgements include: nationwide (Nov. 2002 edition), (various regions to be published), Articles written by ADJA directors published bi-monthly in (Los Angeles/Orange County publication), local New Jersey paper.National Advertising & PR Campaigns
Modern BrideWedding PagesThe Ultimate Wedding Super Guide
Get A DJ Fast full-color postcards available to ADJA members. The ADJA sends you (you may request more at no cost to you). The cards are designed to market the ADJA emergency/find a dj postcard to catering managers & event consultants. The card is designed for you to stamp your local company name for reference to help you promote your company along with promoting awareness of the American Disc Jockey Association. The card may be used by event professionals in case of a last-minute need or DJ "no show". The ADJA estimates that over 10,000 wedding professionals have been exposed to the hotline postcards. (PDF) (PDF)Exclusive Get-A-DJ-Fast Full-color postcards
25 full-color postcards
Download Emergency DJ Postcard Side Two
4-color brochures ( ) ( ) These brochures are great for prospective clients and related-vendors. The brochure features the 0 questions to ask a DJand explains the role of the ADJA and why someone should choose an ADJA member. It features our LOGO and has two ie cutsso you can slip your business card in the brochure.Color Brochures
Side one sample Side Two Sample
This is a new and exciting program which offers you "free insurance". Let's say your equipment is destroyed in a fire, flood, earthquake or some other disaster. You call the ADJA and we will make arrangements to ship you an entire setup FREE OF CHARGE all you pay is the freight (both ways). YOU CAN'T BUY THIS TYPE OF INSURANCE AND NO OTHER ASSOCIATION OFFERS THIS TO IT'S MEMBERS!!"DJ IN NEED" Program
Find out more about the program.
We provide, not one, but rental car discount programs so you can ALWAYS get the best deal! Under an agreement with Enterprise Rent a Car Corporation all ADJA registered members are eligible for excellent car rental discounts! Under an agreement with the Hertz Corporation all ADJA registered members are elibible for excellent car rental discounts!Discounted Car Rentals
TWO
Network with other professional ADJA members to get more jobs, learn about new developments in our industry, learn tips & tricks from other professionals. We encourage our members to create local chapters. We offer web pages for official ADJA chapters and our board of directors is working on other incentives to help local chapters flourish and create a positive change in the DJ industry. ADJA local chapter members receive a discount off national dues.Networking and Local Chapters
The ADJA now forwards all leads directly to you, our member, so you can respond quickly and increase your bookings. Members are listed in our national directory by state and sorted by city. Prospects can e-mail you directly or visit your website right from your listing!ADJA Job Leads
The ADJA has a legal advisor on staff that can give you answers to most of your legal questions !! Any work that you would like our legal counsel to perform is billed directly by him to you at a substantially lower rate than customary attorneys fees.Exclusive Legal and Accounting Advice
FREE OF CHARGE
New service that allows you to handle any conflicts outside of court by using an arbitration clause in your contract.Arbitration Services
Add credibility to your business by proudly displaying your ADJAcertificate to your customers. This is where your membership number may be found.ADJA Membership Certificate
The ADJA is working on an end-user piece suitable for mailing to prospective customers or using as a handout to other vendors. This literature will assist your customer in making the right choice for his/her affair, as well as, educating other vendors about the value of the ADJA while presenting you as a professional.Advertising Materials
These camera ready logos are ready to go to your printer so that you may convey to potential customers that you are a member of an association with honesty,integrity, ethics and morals and that you are a well-established business. Prospects check ADJA membership status frequently.Camera Ready ADJA Logos
Value Added Services
Our bi-monthly newsletter helps keep all members up-to-date on current events affecting our industry, ADJA happenings and ballots.ADJA Newsletter
The ADJA Members-only area allows ADJA members access to online surveys, sales tips and e-mail updates. Members-only area also hosts the ADJA , member discounts, links to help you make more money, job resources, and more. Once you join you will receive a link to create a UserID & Password so you may access the ADJA Members-only area.Exclusive Member Only Access
Exclusive 204 page member manual and legal guide in WORD format
All ADJA members can be setup to electronically process Discover with NO MONTHLY FEES or MINIMUMS and VISA / Mastercard transactions at a discount rate!!Visa, Mastercard & Discover Merchant Accounts
Professional disc jockeys are eligible to join the Association of Bridal Consultants as "Vendors." Dues are only $175 per year. When you sign up by phone, identify yourself as a Member of the ADJA to get the $35 application-processing fee waived. The primary benefit of belonging to this organization is networking and becoming associated with Bridal Consultants, who will refer clients to you. Hint: Referred clients are often willing to pay more for your services! The American Disc Jockey Association is a proud member of The Association of Bridal ConsultantsAssociation of Bridal Consultants (ABC)
The ADJA now offers an Insurance Only access number ( I.O.#) for only $99.00 per year. This allows non-ADJA members access to the strongest insurance policy available to disc jockeys in the United States. which allows you to obtain insurance at the ADJA discounted member-rate. You receive any other ADJA benefits. Please visit our insurance broker at for policy details. This new I.O.# was created to help keep DJ insurance affordable for all DJ's and to protect the insurance program.Insurance Only Access Number
Insurance Only is a limited membershipdo not http://www.rvnuccio.com