Arthritis in Stifle Area
Quicked(Nail is touching sensitive)
And that's just a few of the conditions that can occur with a poorly done horse shoeing job!
    As a horse owner,  you must be able to assess the quality and relevance of your horses shoe settings.  This is a must needed skill.  It's very hard to find the answers to questions regarding a proper horse shoeing job.  There are so many different opinions out there for the horse owner to come upon, it's important to point out the solid foundational knowledge that has been evolving over the years for the faithful servants to our horses feet.  Farriers are blessed with a huge amount of informational sources, some historical, some scientific.  It is with this knowledge a farrier is able to professionally asseses each horses situation and provide adequate horse shoes adhering to proper size, shape, angle, traction and numerous other factors for the fit.
    Obviously, the task of learning the intricacies of the art of farriery is not the goal of every horse owner.  But as horse owners we can learn to assess the quality of a horse shoe setting.  There are many indicators and signs to look for when a farrier does a horse shoeing job of poor quality. A proper horse shoeing guide for horse owners would be a fantastic way for any person owning a horse to learn to judge their horseshoe settings.
    All it takes is the knowledge of these signs and you will take your horse ownership to the next level - increasing your horses health and lifespan as a result.   Taking proper care of your horses hooves means to not willingly allow him or her to be subjected to a poor horseshoeing job.  But - really, how do you , know if your horses hooves are being taken care of right?  Only with correct specific horseshoeing information designed specifically to help you, the horse owner, learn how to properly assess your horses horse shoe setting.know
An old-time smith of 39 years has decided to give back to the community by making some of the observations and insights he has found during his career available.  His name is John Emsley and here are just a few of his experiences:
Interviewed for TV appearances
Taught Farriery for Georgian College Of Owen Sound over 25 years ago
Specially Commissioned to Blacksmith at Large Events (Region 18 Arab Championships, Canadian Carriage Driving Classic, etc..)
Fielded Questions and Held Clinics at Numerous Events
Competed Successfully in Many Different Riding Disciplines
Full Time Farrier Since 1969
    As a horse owner,  we all want to know true, sound principles for keeping our horses lives healthy, long and enjoyable.  John saw the need for relevant information addressing specific issues that he or a fellow horse owner had.  Being a farrier and educator, John has developed a way of cutting to the root of the problem and addressing the question specificly without confusing the issue.  
    Over the years, John has taken note of many questions and through the experience of caring for 10s of thousands of hooves, keeping in the mind the greater good of overall equine health and well-being wrote many an insight into the horse industry.  As far back as 1975 - John wrote a guide named "What is Good Shoeing?", and continued to write for several newspapers and magazine publications across the Canadian landscape.
    Currently John has brought his "What is Good Horse Shoeing" book into the year 2008 - fully revising for clarity, updating in knowledge, and electonically digitizing.  It is now available to you online right here and only here.  As well, John has agreed to give freely his body of work entitled "Horse Tales" to the equine community.  This is a work centering on insights and observations from a professional farriers perspective.  There are gems in here that every horse owner should read about.
      If you do nothing else, at least pick up Horse Tales, it's absolutely , simply enter your first name and email address in the form above and you should get your first issue right away.  Check your inbox every week thereafter for another issue.  This will definitely boost yourfree of chargehorse sense!