www.stevens.edu
is a technological university located on a 55 acre (223,000 m ) campus in , , founded in 1870 on the basis of an 1868 bequest from . It is the fourth-oldest technological university in the United States, and is known for its rigorous , , and technological curricula.Stevens Institute of Technology Hoboken, New Jersey USA Edwin A. Stevens engineering science management [] citation needed
The institute has produced leading engineers, scientists, and managers in industry and government. Two members of the Stevens community, as alumni or faculty, have been awarded the Nobel Prize: (class of 1939), in Physics, and (Chemistry faculty 1906-1909), in chemistry[] citation needed Frederick Reines Irving Langmuir [2]
The Stevens campus encompasses , the highest point in Hoboken. Historic bores into the side of Castle Point, and below and to the east of the university is , , and . The tallest building in the institute is the Wesley J. Howe Center, occupying the site of the former "Stevens Castle" on Castle Point. Castle Point Sybil's Cave Frank Sinatra Park Castle Point Park Castle Point Skate Park
Among the prominent research centers of Stevens is the Davidson Laboratory, Wireless Network Security Center, Keck Geotechnical Laboratory, Plasma Physics Laboratory, Nicoll Environmental Laboratory, Electron Microscopy Laboratory, and Center for Mass Spectrometry.
According to the Princeton Review, Stevens is currently ranked 1st in "Professors Get Low Marks". [3]
The current president of Stevens Institute of Technology is Harold J. Ravech .
Contents
[] edit Education environment
Edwin A. Stevens Building, home to the Charles V. Schaefer, Jr. School of Engineering
Stevens is composed of four academic schools: the Charles V. Schaefer, Jr. School of Engineering and Science, the College of Arts and Letters, the Wesley J. Howe School of Technology Management and the School of Systems and Enterprises.
Stevens offers the (B.E.) degree in electrical, chemical, biomedical, materials, civil, mechanical, systems, engineering management, computer, and ocean engineering. A total of 145-155 credits is required for the B.E. degree. Stevens is one of the few schools in the United States that has retained a broad-based engineering curriculum, requiring many courses in engineering disciplines outside of one's major area of concentration as well as an extensive science foundation. This is a rigorous curricula. Stevens students credit the high, diverse course load with providing them the ability to solve problems outside their immediate fields of study, and to effectively attack interdisciplinary problems that cut across many different, but related, areas of engineering and science. This has made Stevens engineers extraordinarily professionally competent in solving problems compared with many others whose training was focused in a narrow specialty. The Stevens curriculum is noted for its large number of required core courses that are optional in many other schools. Bachelor of Engineering
All of the engineering curricula, with the exception of Biomedical Engineering, are accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). The newest discipline, Biomedical Engineering, is currently finishing the required approval period and accreditation is expected in 2006. The Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree is offered in chemistry, business & technology management, computer science, mathematics, physics, materials science, and chemical biology/biochemistry. At the graduate level, Stevens offers the Master of Engineering (M.Eng.), Master of Technology Management (M.T.M.), Master of Science (M.S.), Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.), Engineer (E.E., M.E., Comp.E., C.E., and Ch.E.), and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees.
Stevens offers an accelerated Chemical Biology/Pre-Medical program with the . In this program, students can enter the medical school after the third year at Stevens. Stevens confers the B.S. degree after the first year of medical school, with the M.D. degree awarded after the fourth year. There is also a prelaw program with , and a "3-2" (5 year) dual-degree program with , in which students earn a B.S. in science from NYU, in addition to the B.Eng. from Stevens. offers two graduate programs in the Dominican Republic a Master of Science in Information Systems and a Master of Engineering Manufacturing Technology and Project Management University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey New York Law School New York University Stevens Institute of Technology International
The Wesley J. Howe School of Technology Management differs substantially from most traditional business schools in that it emphasizes quantitative methods of management, particularly those unique to the management of technologically-based organizations. The Stevens undergraduate program emphasizes mathematical business models, applications of hard science to the concept and marketing of products, financial engineering (stochastic calculus, probability, and statistics as descriptors of the dynamic behavior of financial markets) and the case study method of business analysis. The capstone project in the Business curriculum is the design of a technology-based business, with the accompanying business plan, operations research, market analysis, financial prospectus, and risk analysis. Several of the capstone projects done in the business school have actually been realized in the marketplace as new companies. Stevens has remained a "small school" because it allows smaller classes for improved efficiency and better student-faculty interaction.[] citation needed
Current focus in Stevens is integration of business and technology, with technology coming first. The aim is to produce alumni possessing both the skills to create and to lead and manage technological projects. This achieved through high student involvement in research activities and collaboration with faculty helping bring any project from concept to a real commercial product.
Another important trait of Stevens is its interdisciplinary philosophy students are not forced to only take courses from their particular department, it is possible to get involved into different fields of science and technology or even graduate with an interdisciplinary major. The quality of individual study plan is assured through faculty advisers representing the respective departments.
A view of the gatehouse at Stevens Institute of Technology, with the Babbio Center in the background
The Honor System gives the student the privilege to take an examination without proctoring by a professor. Students are required to sign the Honor System pledge attesting that they have not "asked for, given, nor received aid during this examination" in exchange for that privilege. The pledge reads, "I pledge my honor that I have abided by the Stevens Honor System." At the time of its incorporation, students taking examinations were watched closely by a proctor, and asking not to be proctored was a revolutionary idea. Proctoring presumes students will not do the honorable thing, whereas the Honor System places great trust in the students. Stevens treats its students as future professionals, who will maintain the honor and integrity of their professions. In the case of infractions of the Honor System, a jury of the student's peers hears the case in a trial and decides the outcome.[] citation needed
Stevens was the first technological university in the United States with a humanities department. Twenty-four credit hours of humanities (history, literature, social science, philosophy, and art/music) are required of all undergraduates.[] citation needed
New York City
The Stevens Institute of Technology is named after a family of accomplished inventors and engineers.
In 1784, the land now occupied by Stevens Institute of Technology was purchased by , who would later reverse engineer the British steam locomotive to American standards for domestic manufacture. , one of John Stevens' sons is known for inventing the , a form of railroad rail in use today throughout the world. With his brother , Robert created America's first commercial railroad. John Stevens [] citation needed Robert Stevens flanged T rail Edwin A. Stevens
When Edwin A. Stevens died in 1868, he left a bequest in his will as an endowment for the establishment of an "institution of learning", providing his trustees with land and funds.[] citation needed
The Stevens Institute of Technology opened in 1870 and initially was dedicated to mechanical engineering, but over time it has grown to include all disciplines.[] citation needed
The original course of study was a single, rigorous curriculum that was based upon the European model of science, modeled after the French and German scientific and technical schools, rather than the shop schools that were common at that time. The original degree offered was that of "Mechanical Engineer" (M.E.), in addition to a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering, chemistry, or physics. Stevens granted several Ph.D.s between 1870 and 1900, making it one of the earliest Ph.D. granting institutions in the United States. The broad-based interdisciplinary philosophy was put into practice by the founders from the first graduating class. While the original area of concentration was mechanical engineering, and despite the title of the degree, the curriculum included courses in all of the then-current engineering disciplines; mechanical, civil, chemical, and electrical engineering.[] citation needed [] citation needed
In 1959 the undergraduate engineering degree was changed to the Bachelor of Engineering (B.Eng.) to reflect the broad-based interdisciplinary engineering curriculum (note that the M.E. degree of that time was a degree, not to be confused with the present which is a terminal professional graduate degree). baccalaureate Engineer's degree
The campus began on the edge of the family estate at in Hoboken. It occupied a single building now designated the Edwin A. Stevens Building and a Federal historical landmark. Stone designs on the building's facade are believed to be derived from a pattern repeated in the floor mosaic of , the great cathedral in Istanbul, which Edwin A. Stevens is believed to have visited in the late 19th century. Castle Point [4] Hagia Sophia
In 1959, the 40-room mansion, "Castle Stevens" was demolished to be replaced in 1962 by the 14-story Administration Building, later renamed the Wesley J. Howe building. Victorian [] citation needed
In 1906, students at Stevens, under the guidance of President Humphrey, created the moral and ethical code governing the life of Stevens students, preaching equality and honest work. Honor System [5]
A picture of the Wesley J. Howe Center at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, NJ.
Stevens has a distinguished history and presence in the fields of economics of engineering and management science. (M.E., 1883), the "father of scientific management," developed time and motion studies in the steel industry and other manufacturing industries. The time and motion studies elucidated the most efficient way to do each task, the methods of distributing work in a factory, the assigning of production resources to workers and processes, and the quantifying and measuring of the resulting productivity. His books remain classic monographs in the field. Although few or no plants today employ exactly the system of management that Taylor described, the underlying principles of analysis and empiricism that shaped his methods are still in use today. , Taylor's classmate, was the developer of the "", which is a graphical technique for identifying the critical path- the succession of particular steps in a process that control the cost and schedule as a function of the dependencies between the steps. Present day, computer-aided program evaluation and review techniques, critical path optimization, and linear programming techniques still utilize Gantt's principles. Frederick Winslow Taylor Shop Management and The Principles of Scientific Management Henry Gantt Gantt chart
Closely associated with time-motion studies was the psychology of employee and organizational behavior. Dr. Charles Gaudet organized one of the first Psychological Studies Laboratories at Stevens in 1945. The Laboratory developed psychological tests and standards for public employees such as police and fire. These tests, elements of which are in use today, have proven themselves accurate predictors of performance under stressful conditions.
During the , the International Nickel Company, under the direction of president Charles Stanley (M.E., 1943) developed the ultra-pure nickel that was used to fabricate diffusion barriers used in the gaseous isotope diffusion separation process at Los Alamos which produced the uranium-235 used in the . Previous attempts at gas diffusion failed due to impurities in the diffusion barrier alloys causing corrosion of the apparatus by the uranium hexafluoride gas used in the process. , (M.E., 1939, M.S., 1941), who would later discover the neutrino which won him the in 1995 directed the experimental division of the Manhattan Project. Manhattan Project [] citation needed Hiroshima atomic bomb Frederick Reines Nobel Prize
, a 473-foot, 14,893-ton ship, served as the floating dormitory from 1968 to 1975 for about 150 students. Permanently moored on the scenic at the foot of the campus across from , this first collegiate floating dormitory became one of the best known college landmarks in the country. Following the sale of the ship, students of the Class of 1975 presented funds to the institute for the preparation of a site on Wittpenn Walk where one of ' was placed in tribute to "the Ship". Recounting the events and sentiments on the day was towed away, the alumni association expressed in its journal, "She disappeared into the fog and into our hearts." SS Stevens Hudson River New York City [6] [7] Stevens six-ton anchors [8] Stevens [6]
Starting in 1971, women were first allowed to enroll in Stevens. [9]
In 1982, Stevens was the first institution in the U.S. to require all incoming freshman undergraduate students to purchase and use a personal computer. Around this time, an intranet was installed throughout the campus, which also placed Stevens among one of the very first universities with campus networks.[] citation needed
Today's campus network combines high-bandwidth Internet connection with ubiquitous local area wired and wireless network, besides that campus servers provide numerous network services for students.
[] edit Student organizations
A view of the Stevens campus, as seen from Castle Point
Stevens has a wide variety of student organizations for the size of the school. On campus, the formal name for a club is an RSO (Recognized Student Organization). The SGA (Student Government Association) charters the organizations and allocates their funding (acquired by each student paying a $185 Student Activity Fee, as well as $15 Capital Improvements Fee). Some organizations include: [10]
Archery Club