These products are delivered digitally!
$8.00 Unlimited Use
More than just a flyer - this is the WHOLE SHOW!  Five fun parties, complete with pre-selected recipes, advertising flyer, and presentation tips.  Some even have handouts and incorporated games!
Gourmet Chef in a Box
Ever been AMAZED to discover a recipe all started with a box mix or prepared dough?Many Pampered Chef recipes rely on just that!This is a great party for groups who like to on a full stomach.  leave
Police Line Up / Unusual Suspects
Sometimes a product that solves one problem isn enough.We all want that new tool to solve ALL of our problems. This is a fun way to let your guests learn more creative uses for their Pampered Chef products.  
WANTED!
Oddly enough, one of the most attention drawing tools in the Pampered Chef product line is the Scraper.It a common first product for new buyers. Everyone has bought cheap spatulas that cracked, peeled, separated from their handle, discolored, and/or melted.Throw a party that emphasizes quality!  
The Spice of Life!
The Pampered Chef has an extraordinary pantry offering, but often people are afraid to try new flavors and combinations.The Spice of Life party is designed to boost your pantry sales among your regular customers, thereby creating a eorderclient base, while highlighting the Simple Additions product line. 
Chocolate Palate Party
Chocolate is RICH in flavor and highly valued by women everywherebut how well do we know our chocolates?Chocolate Palate Party incorporates a taste testing game with the opportunity to offer a chocolate clinic.What is the best way to melt chocolate?How do you prepare and organizing a fruit fondue dessert.    
All files are in MS WORD  format, delivered in one .zip file.
 Theme Party Kit - $8.00
These products are delivered digitally!
$8.00  Unlimited Use
Keeping your kitchen shows creative, fun, and inventive can be a challenge.  There are oodles of theme ideas circling, but many of them are just quick flyers with no real guidelines for incorporating your presentation.  That what this package is all about.  So dig in, step out of your comfort zone, and help throw a party that is both fun AND memorable.Five MORE fun parties, complete with pre-selected recipes, advertising flyer, and presentation tips.  Some even have handouts and incorporated games!
Kids in the Kitchen
There are a lot of benefits to introducing children to cooking.  Sure, it fun and allows your child to contribute to household activities and events, BUT it also educational!  This party is great for home-schooling groups.
Pampered Pets Party
Many pet owners have to prepare meals for animals with special dietary needs, and many more just plain love spoiling their pets with homemade biscuits and treats.   The Pampered Chef loves pets too!  Learn how your favorite products can help spoil your furry friends.
A Wine TastingHave you always wanted to have one of hoseparties?  You know, that seemingly exclusive, you have to know omethingor omeoneto get invited party.  Scratch that! This is a Wine Tasting Party for EVERYONE! 
Soup dour
If it cold outside, warm them up inside!  Soup is a fantastic way to offer a nutritious, inexpensive crowd pleaser.  Show your guests how simple and delicious a hearty soup can be!
Always the Bridesmaid/font>
Single ladies need cookware and bake ware just as much as their married counterparts, so why not throw a shower for them.  Pull out those hideous nly wore it oncebridesmaid dresses and get ready to fall in love with the Pampered Chef while decking your kitchen out like it your wedding day!
All files are in MS WORD  format, delivered in one .zip file.
 Theme Party Kit 2 - $8.00
 
Copyright 2004-2009 - My Consultant's Corner / Jessica M. Morin.  All rights reserved. 505-404-1235 Office * 505-688-2377 Cell
 