Registration Renewal
You can learn all about renewing your vehicles registration when you visit our page. Registration Renewals
First-Time Registration
If you answer yes to any of the following questions, you need to register your vehicle as a first-time registration:
Did you just purchase a vehicle?
Do you need to transfer a vehicles ownership to yourself?
Have you just moved to Virginia?
Only new residents need to register their vehicles within a certain time frame―30 days after establishing residency, to be exact.
1) Get Insurance
When you register your vehicle, you must either show proof of insurance or other financial responsibility, or pay the . The UMV fee is good for 12 months, but because it doesnt actually provide coverage, you may want to start instead. Uninsured Motor Vehicle (UMV) fee comparing affordable insurance rates
2) Prepare the Paperwork
Chances are your dealer handled both your vehicles title transfer and registration; however, if youre dealing with another first-time registration (including an ownership transfer or a vehicle thats new to the state), youll take care of it all yourself.
NOTE: Before you set out to register your vehicle, make sure youve handled the titling process, which includes a different set of paperwork and fees. Visit for details. Title Transfers
Once its time to prepare the registration paperwork:
Locate your vehicles title.
Obtain proof of insurance, or be prepared to pay the UMV fee.
Have proof your vehicle has passed a , if applicable (see below for details). safety inspection
Have proof your vehicle has passed an , if applicable (see below for details). emissions inspection
Complete a . Vehicle Registration Application
Consider (VHR) for any vehicle youre interested in purchasing. A VHR will help prevent you from purchasing a vehicle with a shady past―and potentially expensive future. obtaining a Vehicle History Report
NOTE: If you need to move your vehicle before you register it, you may need to . obtain a trip permit
3) Calculate the Fees
Registration fees depend on various factors, including your vehicles weight, the length of the registration period, and even your license plates. Visit to begin determining your registration fees. DMV Fees
Dont forget to find out whether your area participates in the ; if so, you must pay the state and local registration fees at the same time. Local Vehicle Registration Program
First-Time Fees
First-time registration fees can pack a punch, especially when you factor in titling fees and other additional costs. Prepare yourself before heading to the DMV and . determine your exact fees
Additional Fees
Additional registration fees may pop up if your vehicle continues to fail the emissions inspection, you opt to pay the UMV fee rather than obtain insurance, or you decide to order specialty plates.
You may also pay additional fees during the registration period, such as those you must pay when you . replace a lost license plate
Visit your local to register your vehicle in person. DMV
Vehicle Inspections
There are two kinds of vehicle inspections for which you may need to prepare.
The is the safety inspection, which is part of the , and generally applies to all vehicles that arent brand new and straight off the car lot. Safety inspections for regular passenger vehicles cost $16.first Virginia Motor Vehicle Safety Inspection Program
If your vehicle fails the inspection, the examiner will affix a rejection sticker on the windshield. This sticker is good for 15 days, in which time you must make necessary repairs and get the vehicle reinspected.
The is the . Not every vehicle must undergo an emissions inspection; only those that:second emissions inspection
Are registered in certain counties.
Are of certain makes, models, and years (for example, motorcycles, hybrids, and antiques are exempt).
Dont run on clean fuel.
Dont have a Manufacturers Certification of Origin.
Dont already have valid emissions inspection certificates from . several cooperating states
The fee for an emissions inspection , but dont expect to pay more than $28. The first retest―should your vehicle fail―is free. varies
NOTE: If you need a 30-day temporary registration in order to have your vehicles emissions inspected, you can apply for one―once―when you title your vehicle.
Learn more about emissions inspections at the . state site
License Plates
Most passenger vehicles receive two license plates―one for the front of the vehicle, and one for the back―and whether you receive these plates in person or by mail depends on your situation.
Before you agree to standard-issued license plates, check out the kinds of the DMV offers. You may even want to set them off with a couple of . specialty plates nice frames