 
The Threat of Plagiarism
Plagiarism is a serious and growing problem on the Web. At any moment, anyone in the world can copy your online content and instantly paste it onto their own site. After making minor changes, they will claim your content as their own.
The Web is built on the hard work of honest people who devote their time and energy to creating original content. The global epidemic of content theft violates people's rights and discourages the creation of new web content.
Copyscape was created as a free public service to address this growing problem. The resources below can help you protect your rights online and defend against the threats of plagiarism and content theft.
 
Preventing Plagiarism
As with many other things in life, it is best to prevent plagiarism before it happens. This simple will help you prevent plagiarism of the content on your site. Guide to Preventing Plagiarism
 
Detecting Plagiarism
It is up to you to find out whether someone has copied your content without permission. Copyscape provides a that lets you easily search for plagiarism online and identify instances of content theft. Simply type in the URL of your original content, and Copyscape does the rest. Copyscape also offers for more advanced needs. free service professional services
 
Responding to Plagiarism
If you discover that someone has stolen your content, it is best to act quickly. This practical lists some of the actions you can take to track down the perpetrators and ensure that your content is removed from the offending site. Guide to Responding To Plagiarism
 
Understanding Your Rights
The Copyscape will help you understand your rights and the laws that regulate online plagiarism. Since copyright laws vary from place to place, the list also includes links to copyright information for different countries. Resource Center
 
Learning from Others
The provides a central place to share experiences, post questions and tips, and discuss how best to combat web plagiarism with people who face similar issues around the world. Copyscape Forum
More information on Copyscape is .