DVDs Gifts Telescopes Toys and Games Video Downloads
 
military channel See how Soldiers get trained to use this weapon. Think your job is hard? Think again. World domination never looked so good. You saw the movie, now get the real story. This game is specially designed to weed out the real know-it-alls from the pretenders.
Military Channel : Weapons, Vehicles, Games, Top Tens
TRIVIA FOR REAL MEN
 
Prove what you know about the soldiers who live by the maxim: One shot. One kill. Sniper Quiz
 
MORE GAMES AND INTERACTIVES
 
Ever wonder how the Navy SEALs became the butt-kicking elite force they are today? Or how body armor was developed? Well, look no further. Weaponlogy has all the answers. Weaponology
 
 
It is not all great ideas over at the military brain-trust. Sometimes their scientists come up with weird weapons. Find out about the fart bomb and other Or, if you like your weapons the old fashioned way, check out they're old timey! Weird Weapons
These killbots are unmanned and ready for action. Test your robot I.Q. now! Military Robots
 
Upload a photo, add a tattoo, freak out your mother. Tattoo You
 
Film crews captured the fury and drama of World War 2. Aerial Attacks
 
Relive history’s most thrilling dogfights. Showdown: Air Combat
 
Go on the stalk with the best snipers in the business. Top Sniper
Coming soon to a war zone near you. Future Weapons
 
Ancient weapons rebuilt with modern know-how. Weapon Masters
 
Each episode focuses on a single battle, mission or moment of armed conflict. Combat Zone
 
Explore the family tree for history’s greatest weapons. Weaponology
 
The Military Channel takes you inside the operations to gain control of Fallujah. Fight for Fallujah
Don't blame us if you get addicted to our puzzles. Puzzles
 
It’s big, it’s powerful; it’ll cut a man in half. Tour the .50 caliber M107 rifle now. M107 Sniper Rifle
 
This aircraft makes Top Gun look like kindergarten. Check out the F-22 Raptor. F-22 Tour
 
Watch and learn how to subdue your enemies. Ultimate Fighting Techniques
 
VTOL stands for Vertical Take Off/ Landing. We say it just means cool. V-22 Osprey
 
The home for speed & sport, motorized DIYers, and cool car collections. Turbo
 
True stories of survival, justice and the human spirit. Investigation Discovery
 
Wildlife, world culture, adventure and more exclusive content in HD. HD Theater
 
The only network devoted entirely to the wonders of science. Science Channel
 
Your source for health & wellness info, tips, tools & support. Discovery Health
 
A global initiative including a television network, interactive tools and "how-to" resources. Planet Green
 
The premier provider of real-world entertainment. Discovery Channel
 
TLC is an affirmative and connective experience. TLC
 
Dedicated to the unique relationship between people and animals. Animal Planet
 