Cedar Raised Bed Garden Kits
© Photos courtesy of Holly Tsur
You can create your very own raised garden bed in 10 short minutes with these easy, tool-free raised bed garden kits! Raised bed gardening offers many advantages over "in the ground" gardening, including improved plant growing conditions, bigger harvests, accessability, and improved garden pest protection. Raised garden beds can be placed almost anywhere, regardless of how bad your soil is, and with much less work than rototilling or digging. Not to mention you'll produce more vegetables per square foot, an essential goal of the garden in these times of soaring food costs, which makes them the ideal solution for gardens in urban and suburban environments.
We have discovered a kit that makes building your own durable raised bed garden amazingly simple, a cat could almost figure it out. Just find a level patch of ground (or level an area slightly larger than your chosen raised bed size), stack a few boards and slide in 4 corner pins to create a long-lasting bed for your flowers and vegetables. Absolutely no tools are necessary. Assembly literally takes just a few short minutes, however, your Cedar Raised Bed Garden Kit will last for years.
We offer these awesome raised bed garden kits in 5 popular sizes and ship them directly to you from our warehouse in Michigan.
The lumber used is untreated, kiln-dried, select-grade Port Orford cedar, the strongest of all cedars. Port Orford cedar is as strong as Douglas Fir and more rot-resistant than Redwood. Port Orford cedar (Chamaecyparis lawsoniana, also known as Lawson cypress) is a fragrant, light-colored wood with even texture and strong natural oils that help protect against moisture and microorganisms. The wood will long outlast most lumber found in stores, with a life span of 30 or more years under normal conditions.
Unlike most raised beds, the simple design of these kits allows the wood to shrink and swell for improved durability in wet conditions. Nails and screws eventually loosen as wood ages; these Cedar Raised Bed Garden kits assemble with rust-free metal pins set securely through the ends of each board. So even after years and years of exposure, these beds won't fall apart. Yet they can easily be disassembled by hand if needed for moving or storage.
In addition to being strong and easy to assemble, the pin design allows your raised bed garden to be a very flexible plant production facility. Try flexible piping bent over the corner pins, to provide support for a cold frame or shade cloth covering; or fit piping over pins on the north side of the bed, and tie string for climbing plants, like beans and vine tomatoes. Raised beds come with extra long pins for exactly this purpose. If not needed, simply stake the pins into the ground to set flush with the top of the planter.
- Raised beds can be put together in minutes without tools, and come apart just as easily. - No brackets, nails, or screws to loosen with natural swelling and shrinking of wood. - Naturally rot-resistant cedar wood lasts up to thirty years or longer, even when left unfinished. - Flexible piping (not included) over corner pins provides support for shade cloth or greenhouse covering. - Flexible piping (not included) over corner pins can alternatively be used as trellis support for vining crops such as beans and taller growing plants such as tomatoes. - If you're not satisfied, for any reason, just return the item within 30 days for a full refund.No Tool Assembly
Superior Strength