Designing a raised bed vegetable garden is easy and rewarding. Follow the tips and ideas below and use the sample plans as a starting point when creating your own design. It is usually easier to grow vegetables in traditional rectangular units so that you can plant them in wide rows or blocks. If you are lucky enough to have a reasonably sized space that you can devote to vegetables this is the best solution and allows you to maximize your growing area. Clicking on the images below will take you to a larger picture and more information: Make sure that the beds are narrow enough to allow you to work them from the sides without having to step on the soil. A width of 1.2m (4 feet) is workable for most people but you can adjust this if you need to. In the vegetable garden the raised beds can be created very simply by marking out rectangles with string and pegs and then digging over and mounding up the soil. This can be a good way of testing a design to see if it works for you. Try this method for a season and then build more permanent beds incorporating any necessary adaptations to your design.
Planning a Raised Bed Vegetable Garden
(If you need more information about this gardening technique and links to other pages on this topic, provides an overview and outlines some general design principles). raised bed gardening raised bed garden design
Tips and Ideas for Your Own Raised Bed Vegetable Garden
On the other hand, if you have a small garden with no room for a separate vegetable plot, you can create a more interesting and ornamental design by combining rectangles and squares with other shapes such as circles or octagons. (For some ideas on layouts see the sample ). raised bed garden plans for the ornamental garden
When creating your raised bed vegetable garden, don't forget that it is very straightforward to attach trellis and netting to the raised bed frame to support vine crops such as beans and squashes. It is also easy to create tunnel cloches by attaching hoops and covering them with polythene or horticultural fleece.
Sample Raised Bed Vegetable Garden Plans
Plan 1: Large Garden.