Email Supplier
Test Report
One of the newest in the marketplace is the E10 from Bobcat. It's small and compact, and it weighs in at just over one tonne.
The reviewer - Andrew Griffiths, Train to Gain assessor, College of West Anglia
Where size is all important, the micro excavator is the perfect fit. Make it zero tail swing and you have a machine that will boost productivity when working in confined spaces. But are such small machines only good for those awkward-to-access sites or can they undertake more general work?
Most of the major construction-equipment manufacturers offer mini and micro machines. One of the newest in the marketplace is the E10 from Bobcat. It's small and compact, and it weighs in at just over one tonne.
We lent one to Train to Gain assessor Andrew Griffiths with the challenge to tackle as many jobs as he could. But Griffiths is used to excavators in the 12-tonne to 20-tonne class. It's been a while since he's operated a mini excavator. So how will he get on with a micro?
The test was carried out over two days at the Milton Centre of the College of West Anglia, near Cambridge, and also in Griffiths' garden.
It is unusual for us to test just one machine and although another company was invited to the test, it was unable to supply equipment on the day.
BOBCAT E10
If you reckon micro excavators are toys, then it's time to think again. The Bobcat E10 is more of a machine than either the weight or the price tag suggests.
It's dinky, but this digger has muscle to spare. It's also versatile: it "breathes in" to gain entry through narrow gateways and "breathes out" again to give you all the stability you want for work. What's more, it's easy to tow, a dream to use and should be a boon to any landscape gardener.
"It's incredible what it can do," says Griffiths, almost breathless with enthusiasm. "It has managed, with ease, every job I have thrown at it - and I am used to much bigger machines. I can't get over the price - I expected it to be at least £2,000, maybe even £3,000 more."
The Bobcat E10 is a zero-tail-swing micro excavator. When it arrives at the Milton Centre of the College of West Anglia, Griffiths puts it straight to work. First there are woodchips to grade in the woodland walks. Tracking the machine further into the trees, Griffiths tackles the silting edges of a pond. Then it's over the road to the engineering centre where a bank of soil has to be removed to accommodate a new gateway. A second speed range means the E10 is able to travel quickly between work sites and when in position it works beautifully in tandem with a Kubota RTV to carry away the spoil.
"It's a zero tail swing and that helps a lot when you are working next to fences or buildings - you don't have to worry about catching obstacles behind you and you can work in really tight spaces," says Griffiths.
Entry and exit from the excavator are made easy thanks to a grab bar and the completely open, flat area for the feet in the operator station. The open design should also make the station easy to clean. A retractable seatbelt is provided.
The rear of the E10 is well protected. There are heavy counterweights on the rear corners and one at the bottom - all helping to protect the engine, which sits nicely forward but not so far as to make servicing difficult. In fact, easy servicing is a selling feature of this machine.
"This is one of those machines where you can open the bonnet and, even if you are not mechanically minded, you can do the daily checks and services," says Griffiths. He quickly points out the checks: "There's the fuel filter with water trap, the oil filter, the dip stick - everything you want is at hand - all the consumables are within easy reach and nicely identifiable." Greasing points are also where you want them.
He's not been using the machine long, yet Griffiths already feels at one with the controls. These are pilot controls. That's unusual for a one-tonner. We had expected "wobble sticks", so these extra-comfort controls make a pleasant change. What's more, the pods carrying the controls are perfect armrests and they move in and out, helping the operator find the most comfortable position and also ensuring the controls are well out of the way when needing to access narrow entryways. And the roll bar folds down to the rear of the operator so if the work site has a height restriction, you can use the machine and still have a full view of the bucket.
Expanding and retracting the undercarriage width is easy. In the retracted position the E10 has a width of just 71cm, enabling it to squeeze through narrow doorways and down alleyways. In its fully expanded position, the undercarriage gives 110cm of stability.
"With its adjustable tracking, this machine is very versatile. It's very stable with the tracks out yet, if you want the access, you can move the tracks in," says Griffiths. But in comparison to the rest of the machine, he finds the adjustment of the blade extensions to be a bit "primitive". He explains: "There's a series of holes and a pin. You undo the 'R' clip, take out the pin and then the blade extension should slide. But this one didn't. It had seized and I had to hit it."
We know a machine is good when the operator wants to take it home. And that was the case with the Bobcat E10 micro excavator. A seized dozer-blade extension does not dampen Griffith's enthusiasm at all and before I know it, he has loaded the machine onto a trailer and is heading home. Well, at least we can find out how easy it is to tow. The machine weighs 1,066kg. With his two-litre saloon taking the strain, Griffiths easily maintains 50mph (80.5km/h) as he travels up the A10.
"There's some tree stumps I need to dig out and I've been putting off hiring in a mini excavator, because I thought anything that was lightweight enough for me to collect simply would not be up to the job," says Griffiths by way of explanation. Tree stumps? Surely he needs a bigger machine?
Yet again, the E10 proves it is no toy. This is a workhorse. "Imagine the amount of effort and time this could save somebody," says Griffiths. "I've taken out these stumps in half an hour. If I'd have done it by hand, it would have taken me all day. It really does make a difference. I can see this machine paying for itself several times over."
Back at the Milton Centre, Griffiths wants to start forming a quad-bike track. There is a massive heap of rubble and soil on site and it needs some serious work if it is ever going to be biking route. Surely this is too much for the E10?
"It's an impressive machine and it's difficult to be negative about it," says Griffiths. "It beds down nicely - for a lightweight machine that is very good. With some bigger machines I would have to back out, pick up some material, put it down and track it in to get myself level - but this one sits straight down.
"I suppose if there is a weakness, it is in the tracking. When you are trying to pull yourself up a slope, you haven't quite got the hydraulic flow to both the boom to drag you up and the tracks to drive you. It hasn't quite the power to twist itself round.
"But you do get there eventually and then the digging capacity is simply fantastic - it's doing the work of a much bigger machine. I was thinking of putting a three-and-a-half tonner on here."
There's no doubting that the construction of the E10 is solid. And a lot of thought has gone into protecting vulnerable parts. The boom is a "cylinder-over-boom" design and the auxiliary hydraulic lines and work-group hoses are mounted inside the boom and arm for maximum protection. Even the fuel filler cap is positioned where it is unlikely to be knocked. It's also a convenient height for fuelling up. Down by the tracks we find that the wheel motors are well protected. But Griffiths points to the pipes going to the motors. Although there is a bar to one side, Griffiths reckons the pipes could be better hidden.
"Dragging myself up the slope has caused a lot of spoil to collect between the tracks and the worry is that these pipes to the track motors might be a problem. Broken pipes mean downtime and pollution. There could also be a question of safety," he suggests. And he has a solution. "It wouldn't be impossible to put them in or behind the crossbeam," he says.
The E10 comes from the factory with auxiliary hydraulics ready to use. Several attachments are available, including breaker, trencher and auger. Griffiths doesn't think he would bother with a breaker but the auger might be useful. "I'd hire a bigger machine to use a breaker," he says. He's already looking round for the next job. We could have a problem getting him off this machine.
"I'm a 12- to 20-tonne-machine man but I am amazed by this," he says. "You get the productivity of a much bigger machine. It's incredible how far the micro excavator has come in the past few years. This one is great. You can tow it easily and get into confined areas. The dig depth and reach are smaller than I'm used to but it does a decent amount of work. And I can't believe it's only £9,000. I recommend it highly."
 
Price: Expect to pay in the region of £9,000 ex VAT for the machine alone. The E10 is normally delivered with buckets and three years' warranty for just under £10,000 ex VAT.
Contact Bobcat on 0208 723 0161
SUPPLIERS Companies that supply micro and mini excavators include: Bobcat 020 8723 0161 Finning UK 01543 461461 Hanix 0161 335 2330 Hyundai 01344 484034 JCB 01889 590312 Kubota (UK) 01844 268140 Marubeni Komatsu 01527 512512 New Holland 01268 292270 Takeuchi MFG 01206 657722 Volvo Construction 01223 251720