Stay updated, sign up for our free newsletter to receive useful tips
Full Name
Email Id
Arrhythmia occurs because of high cholesterol and high blood pressure .It can be prevented only by getting good health care and proper life style. Any deviation in the diet or life style can easily lead to Arrhythmia. It can even result in death. The article deals with types and causes of arrhythmia. Read through. This article covers The heart is an amazing muscle that acts like a pump to circulate blood throughout the body. It works because electrical impulses trigger contractions that push the blood through the four chambers. Occasionally something goes awry and the rhythm is disturbed and that is an arrhythmia. There are four chambers in the heart; two on the top, those are the atria, and two on the bottom that are called the ventricles. Impulse start at the sinoatrial node, which is located, near the top of the right atrium. The impulse passes down through the atrioventicular node; from there the signal is checked and then triggers an impulse to the ventricles that causes them to contract. When the signal is erratic heart arrhythmias happen. What can prevent an arrhythmia? The best advice may be preventing them by getting good health care and making healthy life style choices, like reducing cholesterol and managing high blood pressure. Causes of arrhythmias may be difficult to determine, but there are factors that seem to contribute to the incidence of arrhythmia such as high blood pressure and stress. Arrhythmias may manifest as sinus tachycardia or sinus Bradycardia. Cardiac arrhythmias vary in intensity from mild to intense and can result in death. Arrhythmia symptoms include, lightheadedness and can graduate to chest pain. Treatments for arrhythmias can be simple to complicated. From very little or no intervention to the implantation of a pacemaker. Some arrhythmias do not appear to have a cause, and may be an aberrant or isolated event. There are factors however. That may contribute to arrhythmias. For example, coronary heart diseases, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, excessive use of alcohol and drugs, and the use of some over the counter medications and herbal supplements have been implicated in arrhythmias. In addition, Stress and Caffeine appears to cause problems in some people. Arrhythmia can be mild and brief or it can be life threatening. Arrhythmia can be dangerous if it seriously disrupts the natural rhythm of the heart and is not corrected. Arrhythmia can result in death. There are several types of Arrhythmia as follows Tachycardia is named after the area from which it originates. For example, Tachycardia that begins in the atria is called supraventricular tachycardia. Supraventricular Tachycardia results in a too fast sinus rhythm Over 100 beats per minute. Tachycardia can be particularly dangerous when it occurs in the ventricles. Ventricle fibrillation happens when the ventricles quiver and the heart can't pump blood through the system. The result can be sudden death. The sinus node functions as a pacemaker for the heart, generally setting the sinus rhythm. This area deteriorates as people age and this is the cause of most sick sinus syndrome. When this happens there may be insufficient electrical impulses to fire the conduction system properly. Occurs when the heart rate becomes too slow. Some people have a slower heartbeat than others, but normal is generally 60-100 beats a minute. Generally Bradycardia results in fatigue, dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting. Bradycardia is often untreated, unless symptoms are prolonged.
Heart Follows a Rhythm, too! Any Deviation Might Be Arrhythmia
What is Arrhythmias?