$6.00 adults, $1.00 children, $4.00 seniors, students. $6 adults, $4 seniors, $1 children under 12
Mon  Sun: 10 am  4:30 pm
Mon-Sun 10 am-4:30 pm
Handsomely rebuilt during the late 1980s, the 5.5-acre Central Park Zoo is home to 450 animals representing some 100 species. A colonnade of tall columns, topped by a pitched glass roof, runs through the center of the Temperate Territory, one of three major exhibits here defined by climactic zone and the only one fully exposed to the elements.
The sea lion pool is at the center area of the Temperate Territory. Feedings are popular and worth the wait (times are posted). To the west the colonnade gives way to landscaped paths that enclose a pool containing the island home of a clan of Japanese snow monkeys. Take the paths further west to reach the Asian red pandas, North American river otters, mandarin ducks and red swans.
The steamy Tropic Zone is a sky-lit enclosure containing dense vegetation, a roaring waterfall, frisky primates and tropical birds flying freely about an open aviary. Colobus monkeys occupy a forest-canopy habitat. A school of red-bellied piranha wait quietly in calm water—except of course at feeding time. Bats, golden-headed tamarins, geckos and Chinese water dragons are all on view while caiman repose on a riverbank stream and countless leaf-cutter ants work away busily.
The Polar Circle features above- and below-water views of the polar bear enclosure. Inside are chinstrap and gentoo penguins, as well as tufted puffins, in large breeding groups. Harbor seals and Arctic foxes occupy an adjacent habitat. Just north of the center is the newly rebuilt Children's Zoo, which is a must for kids but a delight for adults, too.
The zoo opened in 1865. Interestingly, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux did not want it, but park commissioners were so overwhelmed with gifts of animals that they created a menagerie that lasted until 1934, when the current zoo was built. In 1980 the Wildlife Conservation Society agreed to raze the old zoo and build a new one. It spent $40 million replacing the old barred enclosures with naturalistic habitats. The society also operates the Bronx Zoo, the New York Aquarium, the Prospect Park Zoo and the Queens Zoo.
Disability Access: Fully accessible. Call (212) 360-8134 for parking permit
Gift Shops: Wildlife-related merchandise