Things to Consider When Looking at MBA Schools
Comments: 0     Stars : 0
 
When picking an MBA program, it can be difficult to know what really matters. We suggest you take the following into consideration when selecting programs:
 
-         Out of all of the students seeking full time work, how many found it?
-         How many students seeking internships found one?
-         Which companies hire at the school, and does the company you want to work for hire there? If not, can the Career Center help you make contact with that company?
-         Look at the regions students are being placed in. Are you interested in living in those places?
-         Is there a specialized field you want to be placed into? Are there companies hiring in that field at your selected school?
-         How do starting salaries compare relative to the cost of the program? How do hiring locations and average starting salary relate? Are there bonuses offered?
 
Curriculum and Faculty
 
-         Is there a particular field you want to study or a joint degree program you would like to pursue? Is it offered at your schools of choice?
-         If a specialized or joint program is offered, what does the curriculum consist of to make it specialized or joint?
hands-on learning-         What type ofopportunities are available?
-         What type of experience can faculty share with students?
 
 
-         How large or small do you want your MBA class to be?
-         What is the ratio of faculty to students? What type of involvement do the professors have with their students? Do they strictly do research or do they mentor students too?
Cost and Financial Aid/ Scholarships
-     How much does the program cost? What does it cost to live in the area? 
-         What type of aid is available? Does the aid provided require you to work as an assistant during your MBA? What type of pay back plans are available? Is there any form of loan forgiveness?
What is your return on investment?
Student Life and Location
-         What is a typical schedule like? What days of the week are the busiest?
-         What is it like living in the area?
Rankings and Reputation
 
-         What is the school ranked overall? How is it ranked against other universities that are close to its size? Is there a certain major the program is better known for?
  Alumni Network
 
-         What type of network can you develop? Is the program formatted so that you start and end your education with the same classmates?
-         What types of resources or activities are provided so that you can connect with alumni and classmates?