This price is valid for Canada. to view local pricing and availability. Change location
Evaluation Copy
Instructors may for this title. request an evaluation copy
Maya is the first choice of digital content creators producing award-winning games, 3D animation and visual effects. Built on a procedural architecture called the Dependency Graph, Maya offers incredible power and flexibility for generating digital images of animated characters and scenes. Learning Maya 5: Foundation takes you through over twenty project-focused lessons that offer hands-on experience with key tools and techniques. This book introduces you to the following topics: * The Maya User Interface * Working in 3D space * NURBS (spline) Modeling * Polygonal Modeling * Keyframes and Motion Paths * Trax(TM) Non-linear animation * Forward and Inverse Kinematics * Surface Deformations * Cameras and Lights * Shaders and Techniques * Particles and Dynamics * MEL (Maya Embedded Language) What you need to use this book: * Maya Complete(TM), Maya Unlimited(TM), or Maya Personal Learning Edition(TM) version 5 software * A DVD-ROM or set-top player Project One: Bouncing Ball Quickly get your feet wet by animating a basic bouncing ball. Add a squash and stretch, create a ring of fire using a particle clip effect, then add sparks as the ball hits the flames. Project Two: Jack-in-the-box Learn the basics of modeling, animating, and rendering a scene. Use Maya Artisan(TM) tools to sculpt Jack's face and to paint a color texture in 3D. Refine the scene's rendering using IPR (Interactive Photorealistic Rendering). Project Three: Space Battle Starting with a more in-depth look at polygonal and NURBS modeling, this project sets up a motion path animation, complete with Opti-FX explosions. Use Maya Paint Effects(TM) to create a realistic starfield. Project Four: Primitive Man Using Maya's Trax non-linear animation, you cycle for a bi-ped Inverse Kinematic skeleton. This lesson will also explore basic character skinning and deformation. Project Five: Salty the Seal This project brings together the skills developed in earlier lessons into a more complex scene where you learn how Maya lets you fully integrate modeling, rendering, and animation tasks.