 
Educators
The recent wave of school violence has focused public attention on the need to create and maintain safe school environments which afford students the best opportunities to succeed. Reactive measures such as metal detectors for school entrances are quick fix approaches that do not provide long-term solutions. Proactive measures take longer, but build and sustain a culture of respect and understanding for differences of all kinds that can decrease the likelihood of conflict and violence. Among such proactive measures are training programs and educational activities that address cultural diversity and conflict resolution.
The Institute for Cultural Partnerships currently offers a variety of programs to improve inter-group relations in schools and the schools' ability to create an environment for successful learning. ICP staff develop and deliver programs for teachers, administrators, students, parents, and school workers-bus drivers, aides, cafeteria workers, and others. All ICP programs are customized for the particular school or group.
For example, ICP worked with Susquehanna Township School District to develop a “Quick Response Team” composed of educators and administrators to respond to potential conflict that might arise from inter-group tension. ICP also provided support for a Susquehanna Township High School student production of an orientation video for new and transfer students that highlighted cultural diversity as an asset in the school district. Working with Susquenita School District, ICP worked with middle school students off-site to learn more about cultural diversity, and ICP assisted peer mediators by facilitating sessions on conflict resolution. Students from Susquenita and Susquehanna School District joined together in an inter-district program. Students spent a full day at Camp Hebron and participated in games and activities that encouraged interaction and community building as a means to breaking down stereotypes.
The Institute for Cultural Partnerships is an Act 48 approved provider for continuing professional education, activities, and experiences. As such, we develop and conduct for-credit programs of study that increase professional educators' knowledge and skills in the areas of cultural diversity and conflict resolution.