[] edit Various doctrines of Geopolitics
Sir Halford Mackinder's Heartland concept showing the situation of the "pivot area" established in the .
Theory of the Heartland
The concept of Geopolitics initially gained attention through the work of in England and his formulation of the in 1904. Mackinder's doctrine of Geopolitics involved concepts diametrically opposed to the notion of about the significance of navies (he coined the term ) in world conflict. The Heartland theory hypothesized the possibility for a huge empire being brought into existence in the , which wouldn't need to use coastal or transoceanic transport to supply its but would instead use railways, and that this empire couldn't be defeated by all the rest of the world against it. Sir Halford Mackinder Heartland Theory Alfred Thayer Mahan sea power Heartland military industrial complex
The basic notions of Mackinder's doctrine involve considering the geography of the as being divided into two sections, the World Island, comprising and ; and the Core, including the , the , and . Not only was the Periphery noticeably smaller than the World Island, it necessarily required much sea transport to function at the technological level of the World Island, which contained sufficient natural resources for a developed economy. Also, the industrial centers of the Periphery were necessarily located in widely separated locations. The World Island could send its navy to destroy each one of them in turn. It could locate its own industries in a region further inland than the Periphery could,so they would have a longer struggle reaching them, and would be facing a well-stocked industrial bastion. This region Mackinder termed the Heartland. It essentially comprised , Western , and . The Heartland contained the grain reserves of , and many other natural resources. Mackinder's notion of geopolitics can be summed up in his saying "Who rules East Europe commands the Heartland. Who rules the Heartland commands the World-Island. Who rules the World-Island commands the World." His doctrine was influential during the and the , for and later each made territorial strides toward the Heartland. Earth Eurasia Africa Americas British Isles Oceania Ukraine Russia Mitteleuropa Ukraine World Wars Cold War Germany Russia
Ratzel's geopolitical theory has been criticised as being too sweeping, his interpretation of human history and geography too simple and mechanistic. In his analysis of the importance of mobility, and the move from sea to rail transport, he failed to predict the revolutionary impact of air power. Critically also he underestimated the importance of social organization in the development of power. The theories of Mackinder fall into the category of geo-strategy which is no more than a single sub-component within the broader study of contemporary Geopolitics and Geopolitical change. [1]
After , Kjellen's thoughts and the term were picked up and extended by a number of scientists: in Germany by , , and ; in England, Mackinder and ; in France and . In 1923 Karl Haushofer founded the (Journal for Geopolitics), which developed as a propaganda organ for . However, more recently Haushofer's influence within the has been questioned (O'Tuathail, 1996) since Haushofer failed to incorporate the Nazis' racial ideology into his work. World War I Karl Haushofer Erich Obst Hermann Lautensach Otto Maull James Fairgrieve Vidal de la Blache Camille Vallaux Zeitschrift f r Geopolitik Nazi Germany Nazi Party
Following World War II, the study of Geopolitics and, by association Political Geography, was blackballed by most universities. It started to return from the 1980's onwards, firstly through the study of Critical Geopolitics, and later with the publication of an academic journal, initially known as Geopolitics and International Boundaries and published by Frank Cass, later to be taken over by Taylor & Francis (Routledge) under the name, Geopolitics . This is now published as a peer reviewed quarterly journal and is edited by at in Israel, and at in the United States. [2] David Newman Ben Gurion University John A Agnew UCLA
published (Africa, Complement of Europe) in 1952, where he proposed a kind of North South Empire, from to . Anton Zischka Afrika, Europas Gemeinschaftsaufgabe Nr. 1 Stockholm Johannesburg
Since then, the word has been applied to other theories, most notably the notion of the by . In a peaceable world, neither sea lanes nor surface transport are threatened; hence all countries are effectively close enough to one another physically. It is in the realm of the political ideas, workings, and cultures that there are differences, and the term has shifted more towards this arena, especially in its popular usage.geopolitics Clash of Civilizations Samuel Huntington
[] edit Definitions
The study of geopolitics has undergone a major renaissance during the past decade. Addressing a gap in the published periodical literature, this journal seeks to explore the theoretical implications of contemporary geopolitics and geopolitical change with particular reference to territorial problems and issues of state sovereignty . Multidisciplinary in its scope, Geopolitics includes all aspects of the social sciences with particular emphasis on political geography, international relations, the territorial aspects of political science and international law. The journal seeks to maintain a healthy balance between systemic and regional analysis. (Geopolitics Journal home page - ) http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/14650045.asp
Oyvind Osterud, "The Uses and Abuses of Geopolitics", , no. 2, 1988, p. 192In the abstract, geopolitics traditionally indicates the links and causal relationships between political power and geographic space; in concrete terms it is often seen as a body of thought assaying specific strategic prescriptions based on the relative importance of land power and sea power in world history... The geopolitical tradition had some consistent concerns, like the geopolitical correlates of power in world politics, the identification of international core areas, and the relationships between naval and terrestrial capabilities. Journal of Peace Research
in Colin S Gray, G R Sloan. Portland: Frank Cass Publishers, 1999.By geopolitical, I mean an approach that pays attention to the requirements of equilibrium. Henry Kissinger Geopolitics, Geography, and Strategy.
Vladimir Toncea, , PhD 2006.Geopolitics is studying geopolitical systems. The geopolitical system is, in my opinion, the ensemble of relations between the interests of international political actors, interests focused to an area, space, geographical element or ways.Geopolitical evolution of in Basin borders Danube
Principles and Concepts of GeopoliticsGeopolitics as a branch of political geography is the study of reciprocal relations between geography, politics and power and also the intractions arising from combination of them with each other. According to this definition, geopolitics is a scientific discipline and has a basic science nature.(Hafeznia, M.R. 2006.. Popoli Publications: Iran, pp 37 39.)