Site Map
Radio Connection Broadcast School Alternative is a mentor-based, broadcast training network where you can learn the exciting world of radio from an actual on-air radio personality or program director in your home town. Did you ever think that this private, one on one, REAL-WORLD tutoring would be available to you for 75% less than traditional radio broadcasting schools and colleges? Well we are. So, what are you waiting for?  Start your broadcasting career now.  Traditional broadcasting schools will put you in a classroom for weeks.  With Radio Connection's BTN (broadcast training network), you will start your broadcast training right away in a real radio station working side-by-side with successful professionals.  The best way to learn is by doing, and that's what we set you up with. Whether you want to be the next Howard Stern or ESPN Sports Announcer, music DJ or voice-over artist, Radio Connection has the broadcasting program and real-world contacts that will break you into the competitive world of radio. Say NO to overcrowded, overpriced college classrooms and YES to learning in the real world with Radio Connection. If you are accepted into our private radio program you will learn advanced auto mechanics…(just kidding). You will learn Radio of course! The Radio Connection radio program is designed as an intensive 4 or 6 month course that will teach you what you need to know to get you your first paying job in radio.  While no school can guarantee you a paying job upon graduation, Radio Connection can guarantee that you will learn the world of radio from a radio professional in a real radio station. Now think about that, it’s so simple that sometimes “smart” people miss it – with Radio Connection your classroom is NOT on some college campus where NO ONE is hiring for jobs in radio, no, your classroom is inside the very radio station that you one day hope to work at! Now compare that to traditional radio schools where you teacher is most likely NOT a radio professional but a “professional teacher” and your classroom is not a radio station but a college classroom. It’s the biggest no brainer in the history of radio. I started the Radio Connection program in Chicago with Infinity Broadcasting at WBBM AM 780 with my mentor Ken Herrera.  The sessions were once or twice a week from 8-10PM.  What I enjoyed most about the program was the one-on-one relationship I had with my mentor.  I was able to pick up good traits and practices from a professional broadcaster.  How could you possibly duplicate that in a boring classroom? After I was done with my sessions, I would stay and hang out with the staff and also the guys that run FM 96, the #1 Hip Hop station in Chicago.  I would sit in and just observe the guys from the 7-midnight show and try and learn by watching as much as I could.  It was great!!  There I was in a real station, watching the pros work!!  Thank you so much Radio Connection, you got me in the door and trained me.  There is absolutely no way any college on the planet can compete with the training you guys offer.
Why The Radio Connection Works In Today's
Radio Market
WHAT WILL I LEARN WITH RADIO CONNECTION?
STUDENT TESTIMONIAL