Explore future growth and security with an annuity.
  
An annuity is a type of savings plan used by individuals looking for long term growth and protection of assets that will likely be needed within retirement.
Millions of people utilize annuities every year to ensure that they have a guaranteed retirement nest egg, as annuities provide a number of specific advantages over other traditional investment vehicles. An annuity can provide tax deferred benefits, long term growth, guaranteed interest rates, probate protection, trust advantages and lifetime income, and still guarantee the security of principal and earnings from your savings.
Like 401k and IRAs, the annuity takes advantage of special legislation passed by Congress that encourages individuals to save more money for their retirement. The advantage is that most annuities offer tax deferred accumulation, meaning that your retirement savings can grow at a faster rate because taxes are not paid yearly like they are with a CD. Any taxes paid in the future are calculated on the distributions you take, giving you better control for reducing taxation, as most individuals can be in a lower tax bracket at retirement.
Annuities can have special considerations and restrictions in exchange for their guarantee of long term financial growth and security. This can include surrender charges or fees for accessing the investment too early, as well as possible tax liabilities like the 401k or IRA for touching the money prior to 59 It is always important to ensure the annuity you select matches the long term objectives and retirement plan you are working to achieve.
For many individuals though, the security and minimum growth provisions make the annuity an ideal tool for planning ahead. An annuity can remove the stress of managing assets over long term periods, while providing guarantees that when you need your money the most - it will be there.
  
Where Do Annuities Come From
Annuity products are provided by insurance companies, who can be evaluated by reputation, strength, reserves, historical performance, interest rate renewals, and consumer satisfaction. The legislation governing insurance companies is very strict, as federal law requires them to hold reserves that at all times equal the withdrawal value of your annuity policy. In addition, state law also requires surplus capital be available to increase your protection.
Each and every annuity has different characteristics, depending on your objective to create retirement income, maximize tax deferred accumulation benefits, or protect your assets in a variety of ways. The most popular annuities used for these objectives include the fixed annuity, immediate annuity and equity indexed annuity, which all offer guaranteed interest with the security of knowing you will never lose your principal or future earnings.
The exception sometimes used by more aggressive investors is the variable annuity, a specialized securities product that is directly linked to the stock market. For individuals that prefer the growth potential of stocks, bonds and mutual funds, the variable can be a viable planning option, although it does not provide the same level of security for your principal and earnings as the other annuities referenced. Understanding your risk tolerance and personal threshold for potential loss is important before making any final decision about variables.
  