 
Causes
In diabetes sufferers, there is too much glucose in the blood (glucose is made when the food we eat is being digested). Glucose is then converted into energy as it travels through the bloodstream. Diabetes causes this natural process to fail because of a lack of one of the body’s hormones - insulin.
Insulin keeps the level of sugar in the blood down to normal levels. Insulin is made and released when necessary from the pancreas. Insulin lets glucose enter the cells and be used for energy. Insulin is absent in diabetes sufferers. Therefore, glucose stays in the bloodstream and cannot be used for energy.
High glucose levels in the blood can cause many complications and any treatment is aimed at reducing the amount in the blood.
Your doctor is able to diagnose diabetes through a urine test.
Treatment for both forms of diabetes mellitus requires adjustment of insulin levels in the body and strict management of diet and exercise. By paying close attention to the content and timing of your meals, you can minimise or avoid the "seesaw effect" of rapidly changing blood sugar levels, which can require quick changes in insulin dosages.
Traditional Treatment
Diabetes is treated with food planning, oral medications, and/or insulin injections. Treatment methods for the different types of diabetes are:
Type 1 diabetes: Daily insulin injections, food plan, and exercise.: Daily insulin injections, food plan, and exercise.
Type 2 diabetes: Food plan, exercise, and sometimes oral medications or insulin injections.: Food plan, exercise, and sometimes oral medications or insulin injections.
Gestational diabetes: Food plan, exercise, and sometimes insulin injections.: Food plan, exercise, and sometimes insulin injections.
With your doctor’s supervision , you must work at maintaining your diet and lifestyle to keep this condition in control. You can avoid the disease’s serious symptoms if you are able to do this yourself. Also try to keep to healthy weight
you need to closely monitor your blood sugar levels every day to prevent an attack of hypoglycaemia. This occurs when the levels of blood sugar are too low to fulfil your body's energy needs. is not dangerous if you can recognise the symptoms.,If you have type 1 Hypoglycaemia
Hyperglycaemia, or high blood sugar, can bring on a serious diabetic condition known as ketoacidosis, in which the blood becomes increasingly acidic from the accumulation of toxic by-products. This can occur if they do not have enough insulin or if the insulin and glucose levels are not properly balanced or if the body suddenly comes under shock or stress or illness. The symptoms are - nausea, excessive thirst, wanting to urinate frequently, feeling weak, abdominal pain, rapid deep breathing.
Long-term problems caused by diabetes are - eye damage, problems with the nervous system, kidneys, and cardiovascular and circulatory systems. Cuts and sores heal more slowly for people with diabetes, and diabetics are also prone to gum problems, urinary tract infections, and mouth infections such as thrush. , , , are also potential threats to the diabetic. Heart disease ciruclatory problems strokes kidney failure
diet and exercise are usually sufficient to keep the disease under control, however you must see your doctor regularly and if you have any change of symptoms.,For some Type 2 diabetics
Exercise should be an important part in the diabetics daily program -see your doctor before starting anything strenuous.
Alternative/Natural Treatments
You should always be under the supervision of a medical doctor, however here are some alternative treatments which can be used in addition to your conventional treatment.
Chinese HerbsChinese herbal medicines, including root (Panax ginseng), are frequently used to alleviate some symptoms of diabetes; consult a practitioner for a comprehensive treatment plan. ginseng Chinese herbal medicines, including root (Panax ginseng), are frequently used to alleviate some symptoms of diabetes; consult a practitioner for a comprehensive treatment plan. ginseng
Herbal Therapies -Check to make sure herbs are appropriate for your particular condition.Check to make sure herbs are appropriate for your particular condition.
Remember: If you need insulin to manage your diabetes, there is no herbal substitute for the hormone.
Blueberry (Vaccinium myrtillus) leaves in a decoction may lower blood glucose levels and help maintain the vascular system. This remedy may also help to keep the blood vessels of the eye from haemorrhaging if you develop diabetic retinopathy.
Supplementing the diet with (Trigonella foenum-graecum) seeds has been shown in clinical and experimental studies to reduce blood glucose and insulin levels while lowering blood . fenugreek cholesterol
(Allium sativum) may lower blood pressure as well as levels of blood sugar and cholesterol. Garlic
(Ginkgo biloba) extracts have been used to help vision in patients. Other reported benefits of ginkgo include reducing the risk of heart disease, hypertension, and elevated cholesterol levels. Ginkgo
Onion (Allium cepa) may free up insulin to help metabolise glucose in the blood.
Dietary Considerations
It is vitally important to maintain a balanced meal plan so get your doctor to help you devise one to suit you.
Diabetics should avoid sugar, as it can lower the body's glucose tolerance and worsen circulatory problems. Nutritionists also emphasise the importance of certain foods, vitamins, and minerals.
When to seek further professional advice
you have any of the above symptoms more than usual
 
The information on our site carries absolutely no warrantees at all.  Ourinternet site is intended to heighten awareness of health information and does not suggest diagnosis or treatment. This information is not a substitute for individual medical attention. See your health care professional for medical advice and treatment. Internet Pharmacy Services disclaims all representations and warranties, including for example warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In addition, Internet Pharmacy Services do not represent or warrant that the information accessible via this site is accurate, complete or current. Price and availability information is subject to change without notice. Internet Pharmacy Services or any of its directors, employees or other representatives will not be liable for damages arising out of or in connection with the use of this site. This is a comprehensive limitation of liability that applies to all damages of any kind, including (without limitation) compensatory, direct, indirect or consequential damages, loss of data, income or profit, loss of or damage to property and claims of third parties.