Strong Heart and Vascular Center
Division of Cardiac Surgery
Conditions & Diseases
As Western New York's leading provider of cardiac care, the Strong Heart and Vascular Center treats every kind of heart condition. Below are brief descriptions of the most common, in alphabetical order. Each includes a link to surgical-related treatment procedures. About 75% of all heart patients have one of these conditions.
In order to better understand your cardiac condition or disease, you may want to learn about the normal functioning of the heart. Read more about . understanding the heart
Arrhythmia (Dysrhythmia)
An abnormal (too fast, too slow, or irregular) heartbeat rhythm may be a very minor problem—or may indicate a serious condition. There are many types of arrhythmias with a variety of causes, detection methods and treatments. Learn more about arrhythmia
Atrial Fibrillation (AF)
Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is a type of arrhythmia in which the two small upper chambers of the heart, the atria, quiver instead of beating effectively. Symptoms vary from minor to disturbing, but AF can lead to a stroke. Learn more about atrial fibrillation
Surgical treatment for arrhythmia
Bradycardia
With this condition the heart rate is too slow. A slow heart rate may cause fatigue, dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting spells. Bradycardia can be easily corrected by implanting an electronic pacemaker to regulate the heart rhythm. Learn more about bradycardia
Heart-assist devices for bradycardia
Cardiomyopathy
This disease damages the heart muscle, weakening its ability to pump blood and sometimes causing arrhythmias. There are various types of cardiomyopathy with various causes, including viral infections. Some forms strike younger people. Learn more about cardiomyopathy
Heart-asist devices for cardiomyopathy
Congestive Heart Failure (CHF)
CHF means the heart doesn't pump as well as it should, causing the patient to retain fluids, often leading to swollen legs and ankles and congestion in the lungs. It's usually caused by a gradual weakening of the heart brought on by various conditions, such as clogged arteries or high blood pressure. Learn more about congestive heart failure
Surgical treatment for congestive heart failure
Coronary Artery Disease (CAD)
refers to the narrowing or blockage of the coronary arteries. When narrowing or blockage occurs in one of the coronary arteries, the portion of the heart that the coronary artery leads to fails to receive enough oxygenated blood. The lack of oxygenated blood may cause the individual to experience chest pain (angina pectoris). This pain may occur when the heart must work harder, causing the heart's oxygen demand to be greater than the oxygen supply as in times of physical or emotional stress. Coronary Artery Disease (CAD)
As an artery continues to narrow and become more rigid, blood supply to that area of the heart becomes less and less adequate and the chest pain may become more frequent. The blood supply to the heart may become inadequate to sustain life, especially if a blockage (thrombus or clot) occurs in the vessel. Therefore, an area of the heart may not receive enough oxygenated blood and the tissue may die. This is known as a heart attack or myocardial infarction. Learn more about coronary artery disease
Surgical treatment for coronary artery disease
Neonatal / Congenital Heart Disease
These include a wide range of malformations that affect the structure of the heart and major vessels. Congenital heart defects are present at birth because of the way the heart forms during the fetal stage. Genetic and environmental influences can affect the heart as it develops and cause a defect. Some medications, diabetes, and alcohol or illicit drug use duringpregnancy can increase the risk of a congenital heart defect. Learn more about congenital heart disease
Surgical treatment for congential heart disease
Valvular Heart Disease
This includes any dysfunction or defect of one or more of the heart's four valves. In a normally functioning heart, the valves act as gates that open and close to keep blood flowing in one direction, at the right time. There are a number of different types of valvular heart disease including valvular stenosis, valvular regurgitation, mitral valve prolapse, heart valve procedures, minimally invasive heart valve surgery, and artifical heart valve. Learn more about valvular heart disease
For more information, or to schedule a consultation, please contact us at 585-275-5384. For pediatric patients, call 585-275-2735.
 