  MBA - Is it worth it for me? (Frank evaluations wanted)Post subject:
   Thu Dec 04, 2008 12:10 pm  Posted:
Hi all, I am a fan of your forum! Thanks to Manhattan GMAT, I just completed my GMAT with a 700! (first time too!) Closer analysis of my GMAT 90percentile score of Quant 43 (68%) and Verbal 42 (95%), raised pretty serious concerns regarding my quant abilities. With this good but unbalanced score, I am seriously quite lost about what to do next & please allow me to explain & Havard / Wharton MBA programmes pretty much disregard the combine GMAT score, and require at least 80% in both Quant and Verbal. For Harvard/Wharton, my Quant of 68% would be a huge RED flag. I do have a First Class software engineering masters from a top UK university, but still I dont think it will bridge this huge chasm created by my gmat quant scores. At the age of 32, this is one of my last years before age becomes a detrimental factor to persuing an MBA. Given that I am pretty successful in my career (with an upward trajectory) , I strongly believe that only an MBA at Harvard and Wharton would give me the significant boost necessary to justify the financial outlay and time. OC for MBA is a big factor for me. OC, taking into consideration my annual salary of USD200k + MBA fees, would easily come up against the $500K mark. I believe (however foolishly) that only an MBA at Harvard/Wharton will open doors and provide so much intangible benefits to ROI this half a million. (My calculations indicate that it will take at least 20+ yrs to ROI the $0.5M if based solely on the tangibles, so Im writing it off & ) I therefore have very limited options left  hopefully I can get better Quant. This would mean missing Harvards and Whartons Round II, and apply for the severely restricted round III, which will only get worse as the financial crisis deepens. - I will be 34 then .. and will finish MBA at 36 (!??) & the OC at this level, even with intangibles, cannot be justified I understand that everyone here has considered these before, and have experienced similar dilemmas. I am looking for frank, harsh and critical evaluations and personal experiences. Many thanks and regards, Tas
My first consideration is my 68% Quant Score.
My next consideration is Opportunity Cost.
1. Retake my GMAT 700
2. Apply for the MBA in Sept 2010
3. Forget about MBAs