> Solar Energy Tax Credits Home
Welcome to the Northern Arizona Wind & Sun Solar Electric Store
is one of the pioneer solar power companies, and has been in the solar electric business since 1979. We stock a wide range of solar panels, inverters, deep cycle batteries, and hundreds of other DC power and solar related products.Northern Arizona Wind & Sun
** Matching your solar panels to your batteries: We sell a lot of solar panels that are intended for grid tie or other larger systems. Many of those are not the correct voltage for charging batteries with a standard charge controller. In many cases you will need to use one of the MPPT controllers to match the voltages up. **
- email us here for: "where's my stuff", product, system and shipping quotes, availability, and solar product questions.
Add this Northern Arizona Wind & Sun Page to your Favorites
Information on Recent Changes in Solar Energy Federal Tax Credits
On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the "Emergency Economic Stabilisation Act of 2008". Included in that bill were several extensions, changes, and additions to Federal tax credits for solar energy. We are still gathering more detailed information here, but the FAQ sheet from SEIA covers most of it. [ See the link below to view file ] One very important thing to note is that , the tax credit for solar electric system remains at 30%, with a $2000 cap. However, for systems put "into service" between 2009 and 2016, the credit remains at 30%, whle the That means that for solar electric systems put into service between Jan 1 2009 and Dec 31 2016, you will be able to get back 30% of the total cost of the system, with no cap for residential systems. What "put into service" means is basically when the system goes live, or operational, not when it was purchased. You can purchase solar electric systems now, but you might want to wait until Jan 1 2009 to flip the ON switch. For more information on nationwide local and state incentives, see the Dsireusa.org site: For information on various Arizona rebates, tax incentives, and other solar credits etc see the SRP and APS also offer some additional solar incentives, see the same link for more information on those.
for 2008