Ross ODea, Toyota NZDistributor:
Stu Goodman, Toyota NZDistributor:
Jo Healey, Sproket MarketsPartsTrader:
How can I get involved?
To be effective the PAG has to be kept small enough to meet regularly. Over time positions may become available. If you have an interest in helping out when a slot becomes available please register your interest at . We do intend to add one additional franchise dealer to the PAG over the coming weeks. Jo.Healey@partstrader.co.nz
How can I raise issues or contribute?
An email address has been setup so that Partstrader members can raise issues to be addressed by the PAG. All e-mails to will be circulated to all PAG participants and will be added to the agenda for discussion. PAG@partstrader.co.nz
You will get feedback on any submissions once the group has had a chance to review them. As this is a volunteer group this may take a little while, but it will happen.
How does the group work?
The PAG will meet regularly, and will also work between meetings to discuss issues, review plans, and agree decisions on Partstrader as a system, as well as best practice guidelines for the industry in using Partstrader.
What was discussed at the first meeting on Wednesday 10th September, 2008?
The first meeting of the PAG covered a wide variety of issues. The discussion was open and frank, and there was a high level of agreement on some of the key issues that need to be addressed.
Many good ideas were shared in terms of how to address these issues  both in terms of the practices within the industry, and how the Partstrader system can help with future enhancements.
It was clear from this discussion that there are practical solutions to the issues discussed. Over the coming weeks the PAG will work to flesh out some of these solutions, and they will be shared with all Partstrader members as they are developed and agreed within the PAG.
The main items discussed were:
1. Specifically expectations around part quality, good faith by both repairers and suppliers in using the system, repair allowances, credits, returns, restocking fees, timing, etc.Industry practices & Partstrader terms and conditions.
What is the necessary standard required to join Partstrader to maintain quality? How do industry associations fit into these standards? How do we ensure that existing good suppliers are fairly rewarded for their efforts?2. Membership standards:
How should Partstrader implement a feedback rating system to ensure that quality and professionalism are maintained and recognised in the system?3. Quality and ratings:
How can we make the parts ordering and credits process work better for everyone?4. Ordering and credits:
How can we get repairer, supplier and insurer system integrated to increase efficiency and get rid of duplicated effort.5. Integration:
Additional areas raised for future discussion included:
1. Regional coverage, national suppliers, escalation, delivery time, and freight charges.
2. Credit terms, accounts, and payments.
3. New parts suppliers reselling second hand parts.
4. Accuracy of information (e.g. photos) loaded in Partstrader.
5. Assessor/insurer use of Partstrader.
6. Make/model/parts catalogues.
The PAG will publish more details as they become available.
Copyright 2008 Automotive Parts Industry Association