PubMed Citation PEDIATRICS Vol. 111 No. 4 April 2003, pp. 914-917
POLICY STATEMENT
Apnea, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, and Home Monitoring
Committee on Fetus and Newborn
   ABSTRACT
SIDS, sudden infant death syndrome • ALTE, apparent life-threatening eventAbbreviations:
   INTRODUCTION
– 1 8
Apnea monitors were first introduced in the mid-1960s for themanagement of apnea of prematurity in hospital settings. Subsequently,cardiorespiratory monitoring has become widely used in the careof infants with a variety of acute and chronic disorders. 9
The hypothesis that apnea is the pathophysiologic precursorto SIDS was first proposed in 1972. Apnea documented by cardiorespiratorymonitoring during prolonged hospitalizations was reported for2 infants, both of whom were siblings of 3 infants who had diedsuddenly at home. Both siblings subsequently died unexpectedlyafter discharge from the hospital. More than 2 decades later,evidence of infanticide for all 5 infants in the original reportbecame known. The apnea theory never has been proven despiteextensive independent research in the several decades afterthat report. Nevertheless, the home cardiorespiratorymonitoring industry, fueled by increasing demand from parentsconcerned about the risk of SIDS, rapidly developed productsaimed at preventing SIDS. Despite the absence of a scientificfoundation or evidence of efficacy, home cardiorespiratorymonitoring continues to be a common practice in this country. 10 – 1 5 11 , 12 13
The American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Infant and PreschoolChild in 1975 recommended that home monitoring to prevent SIDSshould be limited to ongoing research studies. Subsequently,in the early 1980s a Task Force on Prolonged Infantile Apneawas formed to evaluate the evidence for the theory that apneais a precursor to SIDS. It concluded in a 1985 statement that"a causal relationship between prolonged apnea and SIDS hasnot been established." The recommendations left the use ofhome cardiorespiratory monitoring in individual situations tophysician judgment. 14 15
The costs of home monitoring are substantial. In 1999, 44% of26 000 infants weighing 501 to 1500 g at birth and cared forin 325 neonatal units within the Vermont Oxford Network weredischarged from the hospital on monitors. A conservative estimateof the annual cost of monitoring preterm infants weighing lessthan 1500 g in the United States is $24 million, and this projectiondoes not include physician fees, repeat pneumograms or sleepstudies, other ancillary medical costs, or the costs of otherpopulations of infants who are monitored. In this context, thequestion of efficacy of home monitoring becomes even more important. 16
   DEFINITIONS
17
Apnea of infancy is defined as "an unexplained episode of cessationof breathing for 20 seconds or longer, or a shorter respiratorypause associated with bradycardia, cyanosis, pallor, and/ormarked hypotonia." The term "apnea of infancy" generally refersto infants with gestational age of 37 weeks or more at the onsetof apnea. 18
Apnea of prematurity is defined as sudden cessation of breathingthat lasts for at least 20 seconds or is accompanied by bradycardiaor oxygen desaturation (cyanosis) in an infant younger than37 weeks’ gestational age. It usually ceases by 37 weeks’postmenstrual age but may persist for several weeks beyond term,especially in infants born before 28 weeks’ gestation.The most recent data indicate that extreme episodes usuallycease at approximately 43 weeks’ postconceptional age. 9 – 6 8 * 19
An apparent life-threatening event (ALTE) is defined as "anepisode that is frightening to the observer and is characterizedby some combination of apnea (central or occasionally obstructive),color change (usually cyanotic or pallid but occasionally erythematousor plethoric), marked change in muscle tone (usually markedlimpness), choking, or gagging." 18
   PREDICTION OF SIDS RISK
20
The Collaborative Home Infant Monitoring Evaluation included718 000 hours of documented monitoring of 1079 infants (infantswith idiopathic ALTEs, siblings of infants who died of SIDS,symptomatic [having clinically apparent apnea/bradycardia episodes]and asymptomatic preterm infants weighing less than 1750 g atbirth, and healthy term infants). Findings indicated thatapnea and bradycardia at conventional alarm thresholds as wellas extreme apnea and bradycardia occurred in all groups of infants.(The study protocol defined extreme apnea as episodes lastinglonger than 30 seconds for all age infants and extreme bradycardiaas heart rate of less than 60 beats per minute for infants ofless than 44 weeks postmenstrual age and less than 50 beatsper minute for those more than 44 weeks and lasting longer than10 seconds.) Events exceeding the extreme threshold occurredin 10% of all infants and in 2.3% of healthy term infants. Theonly groups with an increased risk of such events compared withhealthy term infants were the preterm infant groups, up to approximately43 weeks’ postmenstrual age. Infants being monitored forALTEs had an increased risk of repeated extreme episodes, butthe difference was statistically significant only for the pretermALTE group. The risk of a recurrent extreme episode increasedwith each subsequent recurrence for all infants who had a singleextreme episode. Apnea and bradycardia occurred as independentevents. This study documents that many infants experience apneaand bradycardia exceeding current conventional alarm thresholdsand do not die. The mean postmenstrual age for SIDS occurrenceis estimated to be 45.8 weeks for infants born at 24 to 28 weeks’gestation, compared with 52.3 weeks for term infants. Furthermore,apnea appears to resolve at a postnatal age before which mostSIDS deaths occur. Events exceeding the extreme threshold diminishedin occurrence at approximately 43 weeks’ postmenstrualage. These data provide further evidence that apnea is not animmediate precursor to SIDS. The respiratory monitors used inthe Collaborative Home Infant Monitoring Evaluation may havedetected more episodes of apnea than current home monitors thatdo not detect obstructive apnea reliably. These results indicatethat cardiorespiratory monitoring for apnea and bradycardiais not an effective tool to identify infants at great risk ofSIDS. Pneumography, performed in a laboratory under controlledconditions, may identify infants who are having a prolongedcourse of apnea. However, such studies never have been shownto be predictive of SIDS. 19 21 ,, 2 3 12
The risk of sudden death in siblings of infants who died ofSIDS is unclear. Efficacy of home cardiorespiratory monitoringto prevent SIDS in this group of infants is equally unproven.The rarity of a SIDS death and the more extreme rarity of asubsequent SIDS death of a sibling make it difficult to completea definitive clinical trial to establish efficacy. Many studiesthat reported an increased risk for siblings were performedbefore the current understanding of the epidemiology evolved.The roles of infant sleep position and sleeping environment,smoking in the household, and death scene investigationto exclude infanticide are now recognized as significant factorsin understanding the causation of SIDS. There is a bodyof evidence, although inconclusive, that suggests a geneticsusceptibility to SIDS may exist, although the risk of recurrencein siblings, if present, is most likely exceedingly low.– 22 26 , 17 27 28
   EFFICACY OF HOME CARDIORESPIRATORY MONITORING
, 29 30
Evidence exists that preterm infants are at a greater risk ofextreme apnea episodes than are term infants. This risk decreaseswith time, ceasing at approximately 43 weeks’ postmenstrualage. There are no studies correlating long-term neurodevelopmentaloutcome with such episodes. Home cardiorespiratory monitoringafter hospital discharge may be prescribed for some preterminfants with an unusually prolonged course of recurrent, extremeapnea (as defined previously). The physician, together withthe parents, should consider the potential advantages and disadvantagesof home cardiorespiratory monitoring. Current evidencesuggests that if such monitoring is elected, it usually maybe discontinued after 43 weeks’ postmenstrual age, althoughextreme apnea may persist beyond that time in some infants.Using a monitor with event recording can be helpful in determiningthe appropriate time for discontinuance. 19 – 31 34
There are other groups of infants for whom use of a home cardiorespiratorymonitor may be warranted, not because of an increased risk ofSIDS, but because of other factors that increase the risk ofsudden death. For example, home cardiorespiratory monitoringmay be justified to allow rapid recognition of apnea, airwayobstruction, respiratory failure, interruption of supplementaloxygen supply, or failure of mechanical respiratory support.Infants for whom these indications may apply include: 1) infantswho have experienced an ALTE; 2) infants with tracheostomiesor anatomic abnormalities that make them vulnerable to airwaycompromise; 3) infants with neurologic or metabolic disordersaffecting respiratory control; and 4) infants with chronic lungdisease (bronchopulmonary dysplasia), especially those requiringsupplemental oxygen, continuous positive airway pressure, ormechanical ventilation. In these instances, home cardiorespiratorymonitoring may allow the caregiver to respond more quickly andperhaps to decrease the duration of accompanying hypoxemia.However, such monitoring will not always prevent sudden deathattributable to the triggering event or underlying condition.The parents of such infants should be counseled regarding thepurpose of the home cardiorespiratory monitoring and realisticexpectations of what it can and cannot contribute to an infant’swell-being.
When cardiorespiratory monitoring in the hospital or home isprescribed, the physician should also establish a specific planfor periodic review and termination. Should monitoring beyond43 weeks’ postmenstrual age be recommended, clear documentationof the reasons for continuing monitoring is necessary.
If monitoring is to be used at home, parents and other caregiversmust be trained in observation techniques, operation of themonitor, and infant cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Medical andtechnical support staff should always be available for director telephone consultation. Psychosocial assistance and respitepersonnel should also be available. A care plan including periodicreassessment of historical, physical, developmental, and laboratorydata are essential. Long-term follow-up of neurodevelopmentalstatus is advised. 35
Many monitors are available, and it is the physician’sresponsibility to prescribe equipment with specific capabilities.Cardiac and respiratory activity should be monitored simultaneously.Monitors capable of event recording for downloading and retrospectivereview for analysis of true versus false alarms should be used.None of the current monitors available for home use will detectobstructive apnea reliably.
   RECOMMENDATIONS
Committee on Fetus and... Liaisons REFERENCES
Home cardiorespiratory monitoring should not be prescribed toprevent SIDS.
Home cardiorespiratory monitoring may be warrantedfor prematureinfants who are at high risk of recurrent episodesof apnea,bradycardia, and hypoxemia after hospital discharge.The useof home cardiorespiratory monitoring in this populationshouldbe limited to approximately 43 weeks’ postmenstrualageor after the cessation of extreme episodes, whichever comeslast.
Home cardiorespiratory monitoring may be warranted forinfantswho are technology dependent (tracheostomy, continuouspositiveairway pressure), have unstable airways, have raremedical conditionsaffecting regulation of breathing, or havesymptomatic chroniclung disease.
If home cardiorespiratorymonitoring is prescribed, the monitorshould be equipped withan event recorder.
Parents should be advised that home cardiorespiratorymonitoringhas not been proven to prevent sudden unexpecteddeaths in infants.
Pediatricians should continue to promoteproven practices thatdecrease the risk of SIDS—supinesleep position, safesleeping environments, and eliminationof prenatal and postnatalexposure to tobacco smoke.
   Committee on Fetus and Newborn, 2002–2003
William P. Kanto, Jr, MD
Gilbert I. Martin, MD
James A. Lemons, MD, Past Committee Chairperson *
   Liaisons
Jenny Ecord, MS, RNC, NNP, PNP
American Nurses Association Association of Women’s Health,Obstetric, and Neonatal Nurses National Association of NeonatalNurses
Laura E. Riley, MD
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
Kay M. Tomashek, MD
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Linda L. Wright, MD
*Lead author
   REFERENCES
TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS PREDICTION OF SIDS RISK EFFICACY OF HOME... RECOMMENDATIONS Committee on Fetus and... Liaisons
REFERENCES
Franks CI, Watson JB, Brown BH, Foster EF. Respiratory patterns and risk of sudden unexpected death in infancy. .1980; 55 :595 –599Arch Dis Child [Abstract]
Southall DP, Richards JM, Rhoden KJ, et al. Prolonged apnea and cardiac arrhythmias in infants discharged from neonatal intensive care units: failure to predict an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome. .1982; 70 :844 –851Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Rosen CL, Frost JD Jr, Harrison GM. Infant apnea: polygraphic studies and follow-up monitoring. .1983; 71 :731 –736Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Southall DP, Richards JM, Stebbens V, et al. Cardiorespiratory function in 16 full-term infants with sudden infant death syndrome. .1986; 78 :787 –796Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Schwartz PJ, Southall DP, Valdes-Dapena M. The sudden infant death syndrome: cardiac and respiratory mechanisms and interventions. Proceedings. May 24–27, 1987, Como, Italy. .1988; 533 :1 –474Ann N Y Acad Sci [ISI] [Medline]
Henderson-Smart DJ. The effect of gestational age on the incidence and duration of recurrent apnoea in newborn babies. .1981; 17 :273 –276Aust Paediatr J [ISI] [Medline]
Eichenwald EC, Aina A, Stark AR. Apnea frequently persists beyond term gestation in infants delivered at 24 to 28 weeks. .1997; 100 :354 –359Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Darnall RA, Kattwinkel J, Nattie C, Robinson M. Margin of safety for discharge after apnea in preterm infants. .1997; 100 :795 –801Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Daily WJ, Klaus M, Meyer HB. Apnea in premature infants: monitoring, incidence, heart rate changes, and an effect of environmental temperature. .1969; 43 :510 –518Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Steinschneider A. Prolonged apnea and the sudden infant death syndrome: clinical and laboratory observations. .1972; 50 :646 –654Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Bergman AB, Beckwith JB, Ray CG. The apnea monitor business. .1975; 56 :1 –3Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Monod N, Plouin P, Sternberg B, et al. Are polygraphic and cardiopneumographic respiratory patterns useful tools for predicting the risk for sudden infant death syndrome? A 10-year study. .1986; 50 :147 –153Biol Neonate [ISI] [Medline]
Hodgman JE, Hoppenbrouwers T. Home monitoring for the sudden infant death syndrome: the case against. .1988; 533 :164 –175Ann N Y Acad Sci [ISI] [Medline]
American Academy of Pediatrics, Committee on Infant and Preschool Child. Home monitoring for sudden infant death. .1975; 55 :144 –145Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
American Academy of Pediatrics, Task Force on Prolonged Infantile Apnea. Prolonged infantile apnea: 1985. .1985; 76 :129 –131Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Vermont Oxford Network. 1999 database summary. Available at: Accessed May 10, 2002 http://www.vtoxford.org
Willinger M, James LS, Catz C. Defining the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS): deliberations of an expert panel convened by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. .1991; 11 :677 –684Pediatr Pathol [Medline]
National Institutes of Health, Consensus Development Conference on Infantile Apnea and Home Monitoring, Sept 29 to Oct 1, 1986. .1987; 79 :292 –299Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Hoffman HJ, Damus K, Hillman L, Krongrad E. Risk factors for SIDS. Results of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development SIDS Cooperative Epidemiological Study. .1988; 533 :13 –30Ann N Y Acad Sci [ISI] [Medline]
Ramanathan R, Corwin MJ, Hunt CE, et al. Cardiorespiratory events recorded on home monitors: comparison of healthy infants with those at increased risk for SIDS. .2001; 285 :2199 –2207JAMA [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Malloy MH, Hoffman HJ. Prematurity, sudden infant death syndrome, and age of death. .1995; 96 :464 –471Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
American Academy of Pediatrics, Task Force on Infant Sleep Position and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. Changing concepts of sudden infant death syndrome: implications for infant sleeping environment and sleep position. .2000; 105 :650 –656Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Kemp JS, Unger B, Wilkins D, et al. Unsafe sleep practices and an analysis of bedsharing among infants dying suddenly and unexpectedly: results of a four-year, population-based, death-scene investigation study of sudden infant death syndrome and related deaths. .2000; 106(3) . Available at:Pediatrics www.pediatrics.org/cgi/content/full/106/3/e41
Thogmartin JR, Siebert CF Jr, Pellan WA. Sleep position and bed-sharing in sudden infant deaths: an examination of autopsy findings. .2001; 138 :212 –217J Pediatr [CrossRef] [ISI] [Medline]
Skadberg BT, Morild I, Markestad T. Abandoning prone sleeping: effect on the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. .1998; 132 :340 –343J Pediatr [CrossRef] [ISI] [Medline]
Carleton JN, Donoghue AM, Porter WK. Mechanical model testing of rebreathing potential in infant bedding materials. .1998; 78 :323 –328Arch Dis Child [Abstract/Free Full Text]
American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Child Abuse and Neglect. Distinguishing sudden infant death syndrome from child abuse fatalities. .2001; 107 :437 –441Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Hunt CE. Sudden infant death syndrome and other causes of infant mortality: diagnosis, mechanisms, and risk for recurrence in siblings. .2001; 164 :346 –357Am J Respir Crit Care Med [Free Full Text]
MacKay M, Abreu e Silva FA, MacFadyen UM, Williams A, Simpson H. Home monitoring for central apnoea. .1984; 59 :136 –142Arch Dis Child [Abstract]
Ward SL, Keens TG, Chan LS, et al. Sudden infant death syndrome in infants evaluated by apnea programs in California. .1986; 77 :451 –458Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]
Leonard BJ, Scott SA, Sootsman J. A home-monitoring program for parents of premature infants: a comparative study of the psychological effects. .1989; 10 :92 –97J Dev Behav Pediatr [ISI] [Medline]
Phipps S, Drotar D, Joseph C, Geiss C, Doershuk C. Psychological impact of home apnea monitoring: temporal effects, family resources, and maternal coping style. .1989; 10 :7 –12J Dev Behav Pediatr [ISI] [Medline]
Cote A, Hum C, Brouillette RT, Themens M. Frequency and timing of recurrent events in infants using home cardiorespiratory monitors. .1998; 132 :783 –789J Pediatr [CrossRef] [ISI] [Medline]
Abendroth D, Moser DK, Dracup K, Doering LV. Do apnea monitors decrease emotional distress in parents of infants at high risk for cardiopulmonary arrest? .1999; 13 :50 –57J Pediatr Health Care [CrossRef] [Medline]
American Academy of Pediatrics, Committee on Fetus and Newborn. Hospital discharge of the high-risk neonate— proposed guidelines. .1998; 102 :411 –417Pediatrics [Abstract/Free Full Text]