Contact Us
By Benjamin Wise A horse is a horse of course, so what is a breed? There are more than 150 different breeds of horses in the world. Horses were originally a source of food and hunted by man. Since man has been domesticating horses he has bred for selective traits. That is man has bred for developing physical characteristics needed to perform a certain type of work. Breeds began to take form by demand. When man needed horses to move heavy loads, horses were bred for strength. When man needed transportation he bred for speed and endurance. Horses are used in several ways overtime and different breeds continue to be developed. We can classify each breed into three main categories, namely: light, heavy and pony. The Arabian horse is light and refined; it is the oldest and purest of all horse breeds. The Arabian developed as a fast horse with endurance, able to long distances in dry climates. Heavy draft horses, such as the Belgian Horse developed from the need to pull plows and help with other farm work. Ponies have developed from most, if not all breeds, being needed to transport children as well as to work in mine shafts. Ponies have also been beneficial for work where the forage was insufficient to support larger draft animals. Other jobs horses have been bred to perform include carrying heavily-armored knights, herding other animals, pulling carriages, racing and packing supplies. Man has taken the job and the horse and bred for selective traits to produce a capable animal. Much of how the horse developed can be learned from his history. As early man became more mobile horses began to be used as pack animals and later became a harness animal to replace oxen. Today horses are used mainly for sport or pleasure. You may often hear of a breed and live never to see one in person. Some horse breeds are very rare and other horse breeds are in other parts of the world. It is not always easy to tell a breed of a horse at first glance. Most horse and ponies are cross bred, that is they descend from different breeds. Knowing different horse breeds and their specific traits certainly helps out when you want to buy a horse! There is always the possibility of a scam in any market and the horse industry is no different. Read about the horse breed before you make your purchase. If you are looking to buy a quiet horse for calm, no fuss long trail rides then you sure do not want to buy a thoroughbred that just ended his race career. You might be more suited to a Quarter Horse, but they are not available in every country. Look at your local classified ads, visit a riding stable and find out what type of breeds are available and then read about that horse breed! You do not need to get suckered into buying a horse that is bred for pulling carriages. Knowing at least something about the breed would prepare you. It will save you time and money and if you still want to buy the horse, you will sure know that you are in for a bumpy ride! Horse Guide. Get information on buying, owning and caring for your horse, learn about . Learn about your horses anatomy.
Understanding Horse Breeds