Test-Prep Classes: Which is Best For You?
Improve your earning power, further your job prospects or increase your chances for promotion. Fill out our .
When it comes to entrance exams, the stakes are high. Your score can make the difference between attending Harvard or Jed Clampett U in the Ozark backwoods. It can determine how much you receive and even what salary you get after school. Although this may not be completely fair, these tests remain a crucial part of the admissions process. Whether you want to be a doctor or a lawyer, a professor or a dentist, you must first pass through a punishing test to prove your worthiness for grad school.
financial aid
Therefore, knowing how much is riding on your performance, test preparation courses are highly recommended. If you Google test prep, however, you get slammed with a slew of choices from actual accredited programs to Bill’s Test Prep Pow Wow. They offer and courses in classrooms. You can buy books or CD-ROMs to guide yourself through the process. These choices can cost you anywhere from $20 to $1,000. By the end of your search, you may feel like you are playing Test Prep Pin-The-Tail-On-The-Donkey. courses online
How do you know which one is the best for you? Following are a few points you may want to consider when making your choice. Test prep classes can give you a huge boost in these formidable tests if you pick the right one:
Top Online Schools
Ellis College
Some exams, like the GMAT, are administered on computers at specialized testing centers. Other exams, like the LSAT, are administered in written packets with a proctor standing by with a stopwatch. Obviously, these are two very different testing experiences that require different kinds of practice and preparation. If you are not accustomed to the format of the test, you may experience some difficulty getting acclimated to the setting on the day of the test.-1. Test format
Here is a general rule of thumb: the closer your test prep mirrors the format of the test, the less disorientation you will experience when you take the test. This means that, if you are preparing for an exam administered on paper, do not take a computer-based course. Similarly, if your test is computer-based, do not take a book-based course. The best prep courses for the LSAT, for instance, are those administered in classrooms by a live instructor. The best GMAT courses are taught on CD-ROM or online or at least give you a lot of practice on a computer.
Every test prep course will claim that they are God’s gift to the world’s future grad students, that they provide this feature or that feature that will have you in the ninety-ninth percentile and have grad schools begging you to attend their school. The best way to find out how they really perform is to do some research beforehand. Websites like can give you ratings for different courses. Most of these, however, are marketing sites for the test prep companies and therefore are less than objective. A better route is to solicit advice from friends who have been through the process.2. Success rate - eOpinions.com
People learn in different ways. Those who thrive on social engagement might want to choose the classroom over the . Those who learn best alone with a may want to choose an online course or a manual. What you are comfortable with matters when you are trying to get ready for some of the hardest tests known to man. You must, however, balance this with the format of the actual test. If you are uncomfortable working or studying in a classroom but you are getting ready for the LSAT, you may want to force yourself to study in a classroom, just to overcome that discomfort. Better now than on the day of the test when every minute matters.3. Personal preferences - online course book
Test prep can make all the difference. Make sure you pick the prep course that will have you ready and composed on test day.
Prince2 Foundation Course is an examination based course, which gives delegates accreditation at PRINCE2 Foundation level - . PRINCE2 Courses
Take the genuine Myers-Briggs & career tests online. Also in Spanish, French, German and other languages. Group rates available. Myers-Briggs Personality Test Online, MBTI, Online Group and Team Testing, Career Tests, Test Packag
- Dramatically improve your SAT Essay score with the e-book “How to Write Fast and Effectively for the New SAT”. Sat Essay
SHARE THIS STORY: