Heritage Tours
The Virginia Piedmont played a pivotal role in American colonial and Civil War history. Here you’ll find the home of President James Madison, numerous Civil War battlefields, a national cemetery where Union and Confederate soldiers were laid to rest, and restored historic Main Streets lined with restaurants and shops for you to explore.
From Washington D.C., Northern Virginia and points north:
Take Route 66 to Route 29 south to Warrenton and visit the Warrenton Historic District with its restored Main Street, Fauquier County Courthouse, Old Jail Museum, The Mosby Museum at Brentmoor, and many other historic homes and sites. Eat dinner at , or Main Street Grill and stay at the or one of the .DAY ONE: Claire’s at the Depot Crescendo Bistro Black Horse Inn other B&Bs or hotels
Drive south on Route 29. Stop at Brandy Station, site of the largest cavalry battle of the Civil War. Visit the Graffiti House and see the messages wounded soldiers wrote on the walls. Continue south to the  with its restored East Davis Street, historic Culpeper Depot that serves as the Culpeper Visitor Center and take a walking tour past historic Hill Mansion and other homes. Visit the , where Union and Confederate soldiers are buried and stop by the . Enjoy dinner at and stay at or one of the other .DAY TWO:
Town of Culpeper Culpeper National Cemetery Museum of Culpeper History Its About Thyme, Hazel River Inn, Lucio or Fotis Fountain Hall area B&Bs
If you have another day, drive south on Route 15 to the . On the way you’ll pass . Visit the with its restored train depot, home to the Orange Office of Tourism. Visit the home of President James Madison, “Father of the Constitution,” located on a 2,700 acre estate. Further south on Route 15 is historic where you can visit the . Eat dinner in the or in and spend the night at one of the B&Bs or motels.  DAY THREE: Town of Orange Cedar Mountain Battlefield Orange Historic District Montpelier Gordonsville Barboursville Ruins and Vineyards Town of Orange Gordonsville
From Fredericksburg, Richmond, Charlottesville and points south:
 From Fredericksburg, take Route 3 to Route 20. Visit the . Continue on Route 20 to historic . From Richmond, take I-64 west to Route 15 North. Visit the , a popular hotel in the 1860’s and a receiving site for sick and wounded soldiers during the Civil War. Visit Gordonsville’s Main Street and enjoy lunch at one of the restaurants. Stop by the , where you can sample the outstanding local wines. Have a delicious dinner at the winery or at Pomme or Toliver in . Stay at one of the B&Bs in or drive to the and stay there.DAY ONE: Wilderness Battlefield Gordonsville Exchange Hotel Civil War Museum Barboursville Ruins and Vineyards Gordonsville Gordonsville Town of Orange
Visit 2,7000 acre estate and homeof President James Madison, “Father of the Constitution,” located several miles outside the . Return to the Town of Orange, visit the restored historic Orange Depot, home to the . Enjoy the quaint shops and eat lunch at one of the restaurants. Drive north on Route 15 to the . On the way you’ll pass . In Culpeper, stop at the . Drive down Main Street to restored East Davis Street with its . Visit Culpeper Depot that serves as the . Take a walking tour past historic Hill Mansion and other homes. Visit the where Union and Confederate soldiers are buried. North of Culpeper, stop at site of the largest cavalry battle of the Civil War and visit the and see the messages wounded soldiers wrote on the walls. Enjoy dinner at Its .  Stay at or one of the .  DAY TWO:
On your way home, visit the town of on Route 29 south and the James City Battlefield and Jack’s Shop Battlefield. Madison
Romantic Getaways
Looking to leave the cares of work and home behind and enjoy a few days of romance and relaxation? The Central Piedmont’s beautiful scenery, cozy B&Bs, wineries, antique shops, art galleries and gourmet restaurants are just the thing. No need to get on a plane; it’s a short drive away.
From Washington D.C., Northern Virginia and points north:
Take Route 50 west through horse country and beautiful farms to where you can stay at the historic once owned by George Washington. Rooms feature four-poster canopy beds, fireplaces and jacuzzis. Visit one or more of the to sample Virginia’s excellent wines. from Upperville, drive south on scenic Route 712 to 710 and west on Route 647 to . Have lunch at the and visit one of the nearby wineries. Stay at one of the B&Bs in and around Flint Hill and the Town of Washington like the , Caledonia Farm (call: 540-675-3693), , or . Enjoy a culinary feast at the region’s only five-star or savor a great meal at the or one of the restaurants in .DAY ONE:
Upperville Blackthorne Inn local wineries Or, Flint Hill Griffin Tavern House on Water Street Fairlea Farm Middleton Inn other B&Bs Inn at Little Washington Flint Hill Public House Sperryville
Enjoy a home-cooked country breakfast at your B&B. For an exhilarating romantic experience, try a hot air balloon ride over the Shenandoah Valley (1-800-SKYRIDE).take Route 211 to and drive along Skyline Drive with spectacular views of the surrounding valleys. Stop for a hike on one of the park’s trails. On the way back, visit the art galleries in Sperryville or in the Town of Washington. Visit another winery or relax over a glass of wine and appetizers at one of the local restaurants. take a horseback ride through fields and woods at the in Hume. For evening entertainment, check the schedule at the . Spend another relaxing night at your B&B.DAY TWO:Or, Shenandoah National Park OR Marriott Ranch Theater at Washington
From Fredericksburg, Richmond, Charlottesville and points south:
From Richmond, take I-64 west to Route 15 north to Gordonsville; from Charlottesville, take Route 20 north to 33 east. Visit the and taste their award-winning wines. Drive north on Route 15 to the . Have lunch and enjoy the shops and restored historic buildings. Drive to located a few miles west of town and stroll around the 2,700 acre estate, home of President James Madison. You can stay at the the or , an Italianate Victorian B&B on the national historic register that offers “Romantic Packages.” stay at the lovely Inn at in Locust Dale a few miles north of Orange on Route 15 with views of the Blue Ridge Mountains from your window. For a romantic dinner, eat at the in Orange County or in Culpeper.DAY ONE:
Barboursville Ruins and Winery Town of Orange Montpelier B arboursville Winery 1804 Inn Inn on Poplar Hill Mayhurst Inn OR Meander Plantation Inn at Meander Plantation or try Pomme or Palladio Foti’s or Lucio
For a truly unique romantic experience, try a sunrise hot air balloon trip over the Shenandoah Valley (arrangements can be made through ). For a less dramatic but beautiful day, take a horseback ride through the countryside, then visit one of the or drive to Shenandoah National Park and enjoy a hike on one of the many trails. take a . Top off the day with a relaxing massage and delicious dinner at one of the restaurants you didn’t try the night before.DAY TWO:
If you have a third day, explore the historic or visit the historic .DAY THREE: Town of Culpeper Town of Madison
Family Tours
The Virginia Piedmont is a great place for a 2-3 day family getaway. You can pick apples, pumpkins or berries, depending on the season; take a horseback ride through fields and woods; hike in the mountains; visit farms with cows, sheep, horses and even alpaca; visit Civil War battlefields and presidential homes or spend the day canoeing, rafting or fishing. Lodging options fit all budgets and tastes, from quaint B&Bs to hotels to campgrounds.
From Northern Virginia, Washington D.C. and points north:
Drive out Route 66 and, depending on the season, pick your own apples, cherries or pumpkins and sip fresh cider at Stribling Orchard or Hartland Orchard in , at in Rappahannock or another orchard in the region. Visit the in Marshall and, once a year, watch the shearing process. Springtime is horse event time in the Virginia hunt country. Attend one of the region’s many equine events like the , steeplechase and other equine events. Check the Schedule of Events on our homepage. Have dinner at one of the many restaurants in , or and stay at one of the area B&Bs or hotels.DAY ONE: Fauquier County Lee’s Orchard or Jenkins Orchard Alpaca Full Moon Farm Gold Cup Races Warrenton Flint Hill Town of Washington
Enjoy a family horseback ride at the or through fields and woods, with rides tailored to your ability. take in some American history and visit the historic town of or drive to largest cavalry battle of the Civil War and see the messages wounded soldiers wrote on the walls of the . Visit the with its restored main street, where Union and Confederate soldiers are buried, its historic homes and . Eat dinner at one of the restaurants. Return to your lodging or stay at one of the B&Bs in Culpeper.DAY TWO: Marriott Ranch Lantern Lane Farm
OR Warrenton Brandy Station Graffitti House Town of Culpeper National Cemetery Museum of Culpeper History
If it’s family bonding time in nature that you seek, the Rappahannock River and the Rapidan River offer wonderful places for canoeing, rafting, and tubing. Organized trips are available for all skill levels through . You can make arrangements to stay at their campground or make your own arrangements at a hotel or B&B. You’ll also find great places to fish on these andDAYS ONE-TWO OPTION: Rappahannock River Campground other rivers in the region .
From Fredericksburg, Richmond, Charlottesville and points south:
From Fredericksburg, take Route 20 to Route 15 south and pick apples or other fruits, depending upon the season, at Honey Hill Orchards in Locust Grove. Continue to the , have lunch and then visit , the 2,700 acre estate of President James Madison, located a few miles west of the Town of Orange. Check Montpelier’s event calendar for horse races, sheep sheering, dog trials and other events. Stay at  in Orange or at , a 584 acre cattle and horse farm, or try one of the .DAY ONE:
Town of Orange Montpelier Mayhurst Inn Wolf Trap Farm other lodgings in the area
Enjoy a hearty breakfast at your lodging and drive to . Drive along Skyline Drive. Enjoy the spectacular views of the surrounding valley and hike on one of the many trails. take Route 231 to Route 670 to and enjoy a family horseback ride through the woods at the foothills of the mountains. Spend the night at the lodge enjoy a great country dinner. drive to Remington and enjoy a at the Inn at Kelly’s Ford and have dinner and spend the night there.DAY TWO: Shenandoah National Park OR Graves Mountain Lodge OR, horseback ride
If it’s family time on the river and dinner around a campfire that you seek, the Rappahannock River and the Rapidan River offer wonderful opportunities for canoeing, rafting and tubing. Organized trips are available for all skill levels through . You can make arrangements to stay at their campground. For a day or two of great fishing, contact the Castaway Company, an Orvis-endorsed fly fishing school that can arrange on one of the region’s rivers. , can make arrangements for a day or afternoon of fishing.DAYS ONE-TWO OPTION: Rappahannock River Campground a whole day or half-day of fishing Or Graves Mountain Lodge
Featured Regional Packages