lapidary supplies, equipment and tools at delta one lapidary
 
At Delta One Lapidary, we can supply your lapidary equipment, lapidary tools, rock hounding tools, and jewelry tools and equipment needs.
We have big news!We've opened a store in beautiful downtown Waldport, OR.Our address is .We're open three days a week:The front of the store we've set up for retail sales, with goodies such as grit, wheels, drill bits, and machinery.The rest of the store is a workshop where we continue to teach lapidary arts to anyone who wants to learn.380 Hemlock St, Ste. 1Tuesday from 10 am-6 pm, Wednesday from 12 pm-8 pm, and Thursday from 10 am-5 pm.
Our after-school sessions for the kids are on Tuesday from 3-6 pm, and Wednesday from 5-8 pm.Adults are welcome on Wednesday, too.We charge the kids $0.25, and the adults $2.00 per session.We have tons of fun, and enjoy getting to know more of the kids in the area.For more info, call us at 541-563-7495.
One of our biggest categories is the Grobet catalog.We'll be adding products on a daily basis, so check back often to see what's new!We'll also expand other product lines whenever needed.
Click here to useur new keyword search of our complete onlineatalog!
We sell including , , , , , , slab and trim saws, lapidary units, , , faceting discs, band saws, grits, polishing compounds and media, diamond saw blades, , sanding discs and belts, , cabbing machines, diamond sprays, compounds and borts scales, dops, drill presses, flex shaft machines and hand pieces, vibratory tumblers, casting equipment, loupes and magnifiers. We provide professional advice along with our extensive inventory of lapidary machines and products.As dealers for some of the most respected names in the lapidary business, we can find for you anything you need to achieve an excellent outcome for your lapidary pursuits, whether professional or as a hobbyist. lapidary equipment and supplies grinder polishers glass machines sphere machines rock tumblers wet belt sanders gem drills 10", 12", and 16" vibrating laps arbors diamond grinding wheels faceting machines
Youl find information about the Oregon Coast Agate Club, and the Alsea Youth Lapidary Club, both dedicated to the love of gems and minerals.Youl also find an original story about the Oregon sunstone, written by professional story-teller Mike Coyote, of the Pomo tribe.
Use either the shopping cart or our toll-free number to order, then if you have questions about your purchase, call us on the number below.For local calls or to speak with our technical adviser, call541.563.7495./strong> Please note:due to fluctuating manufacturer's costs, prices quoted are subject to change without notice.
 