Site Map
Unless you desire to be a radio station accountant, a college degree or diploma is not a job prerequisite.  Degrees and diplomas carry little, if any, weight when it comes to getting hired in the Radio or Broadcasting Business.  Unfortunately, the goal of most Radio Schools and Broadcasting Schools is to grant you a diploma.  With The Radio Connection, the goal is always to get you hired.  We do this by concentrating on what's necessary for you to learn to make yourself attractive to those that do the hiring in the radio and broadcasting Industries.  The Radio Connection believes the best way to learn a job is to do the job.   By learning your craft from your personal tutor, a real, working radio or broadcasting professional, on actual on-air radio shows and production sessions, you gain real-world experience and real-world connections that no college campus can duplicate.  That's because in Radio Schools everything works perfectly.  In the real world, Murphy’s Law holds true (“If something can go wrong, it will”) and if you haven’t experienced that sinking sensation of having things fall apart in the middle of a broadcast during your training, you just plain aren’t ready to be hired.  Industry pros know this.  That’s why they don’t hire someone just because they have a good resume or a diploma, and are reluctant to hire people fresh out of Radio Broadcast Schools because they haven’t been seasoned by the real world yet. The Digital Revolution has greatly impacted radio with the advent of satellite radio, internet radio and podcasts being added to the traditional terrestial radio.  The one thing that has remained constant in radio and broadcasting is personality; as much as the technology has changed the face of radio, the faces (or more accurately the voices) on radio remain largely the same: Howard Stern, Don Imus and Rush Limbaugh leading the pack. The Radio Connection has been offering it's learn by doing , and programs for 25 years.  We know it works, and we know why.  With The Radio Connection you learn real stuff, real quick.  This is because our program let's you learn the job by doing the job, under the direct, personal, one-on-one, tutoring of a working radio DJ, talk show host, sportscaster, voiceover artist, or other broadcast professional who is making a living in the radio or broadcasting specialty that interests you.  The Radio Connection is a viable Radio Broadcast School Alternative because it works, it saves you a lot of money, and gets you out in the job market in under six months. It takes a special breed of person to succeed in the Radio and Broadcast industries.  It’s about dedication, focus, passion, ability to handle the unexpected, and a whole lot more.  The best description of a person who is right for the business is this:  Are you the kind of person who gets home at 6AM after working a 20 hour day, and when your alarm wakes you in two hours at 8AM for a 10AM session call, you can’t wait to jump out of bed and get to the station?  If you aren’t, don’t bother applying with us, you don’t have what it takes.  Because the are the people who wake up on their own at 6:45AM and already out the door at 7AM.  And wanting it to never stop--you have to want that too.  And it’s not about the money.  It’s about the work.  It’s about being a part of creating something out of nothing.  It’s the satisfaction of having pulled off something great, something that you know you have a right to be proud of…and it’s this passion for the work that is essential to success. That's why we only accept one out of every twenty applicants (5%) to The Radio Connection.  We don't want to waste your time.  We don't want to waste our mentors' time either.  The good news is that because the Radio Connection's admission standards are so high we have an exceptional record of job placement (currently 74% of students who complete the entire Radio Connection six month curriculum find employment in the radio or broadcast industry within a year of graduation.)
Why