The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Employers And Other Entities Covered By EEO Laws
and the (ADA) cover all private employers, state and local governments, and education institutions that employ 15 or more individuals. These laws also cover private and public employment agencies, labor organizations, and joint labor management committees controlling apprenticeship and training. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 Americans with Disabilities Act
The (ADEA) covers all private employers with 20 or more employees, state and local governments (including school districts), employment agencies and labor organizations. Age Discrimination in Employment Act
The (EPA) covers all employers who are covered by the Federal Wage and Hour Law (the Fair Labor Standards Act). Virtually all employers are subject to the provisions of this Act. Equal Pay Act
Multinational Employers
U.S.-based companies that employ U.S. citizens outside the United States or its territories, and multinational employers that operate in the United States or its territories, are covered under EEO laws, with certain exceptions. For answers to common questions about how EEO laws apply to multinational employers, please see:
Employee Rights When Working for Multinational Employers
Federal Government
Title VII, the ADEA, and the EPA also cover the federal government. In addition, the federal government is covered by , as amended, which incorporate the requirements of the ADA. However, different procedures are used for processing complaints of federal discrimination. For more information on how to file a complaint of federal discrimination, contact the EEO office of the federal agency where the alleged discrimination occurred. Sections 501 and 505 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
The of 1978 (not enforced by EEOC) covers most federal agency employees except employees of a government corporation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and as determined by the President, any executive agency or unit thereof, the principal function of which is the conduct of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities, or the General Accounting Office. Civil Service Reform Act
This page was last modified on December 23, 2005.