76 - 124 cm (30 - 50")
Weight
5.8 - 13.3 kg (13 - 30 lbs)
Height
approx. 53 cm (21")
The Bobcat, possibly the most successful wild cat species in North America, is more easily recognized than many other small wild cats. Their soft, dense coat is light grey to reddish brown, and they are randomly barred and spotted with black or dark reddish brown. The fur along the middle of the back is usually darker, while the underparts are whitish, and also spotted. The short bobbed tail, approximately 7.5 - 15 cm long, is marked with several indistinct dark bands, and black tipped only on the topside. The bob tail is possibly a past adaptation to cold conditions. Bobcats are short stocky cats with muscular legs, their hind legs being slightly longer than their forelegs. Their relatively high shoulder height and thick fur make them appear much larger than they really are. The large ears are black on the outside, with a white central spot, and their eyes are a yellowish brown. Their ear tufts, if present, are much smaller than those of the Canada lynxLynx canadensis, as is the ruff framing their face. The largest bobcats are found in Canada, and the smallest in Mexico.
Bobcats at one time inhabited almost every conceivable type of terrain throughout North America, including sage brush, desert, high mountain ranges, temperate, swamp and rain forests. Unlike the Canada lynx, they are not found in the northern latitudes where deep snow restricts their movements. Today their range is much reduced, and they can be found only in southern Canada, through the western USA, and sparsely in Mexico. They have been virtually eliminated from many areas of the midwestern USA due to persecution, habitat destruction and the resulting lack of prey species.
These tough little cats survive mainly because they are secretive, cantankerous, will eat almost any type of prey and can live in almost any kind of habitat. They are reasonably tolerant of human disturbance, adapting well to altered habitat. They hunt by day or night, and as opportunistic feeders, prey on whatever is most abundant, such as rodents and other small mammals, birds, carrion, eggs, frogs, reptiles, and domestic poultry. Although they are heavily persecuted as livestock killers, the majority of their prey species are destructive agricultural pests such as mice, rabbits, and hares. Despite their small size, bobcats can be effective predators of large adult ungulates, especially deer, which are generally killed when resting. They are mainly ground dwellers, but can climb trees with ease and are excellent swimmers.
Although bobcats are solitary animals, the males have an established range which includes the smaller ranges of several females, and often overlaps partially with other males territories. Female ranges are more exclusive. Males and females associate only during the breeding season, which runs from December to April, with the earliest breeding occurring at the lower latitudes. Only resident cats with established territories raise litters. While males may breed with several females, the females typically mate with only one male. Like the Canada lynx, bobcat populations vary in accordance with prey availability, which fluctuates from year to year. Territorial systems act together with prey abundance and habitat conditions to regulate densities, which may range from one cat per five square miles to more than seven bobcats per square mile.
Gestation is 50 - 70 days, with one to six, usually two to four, kittens being born in a den, hollow log, under a rock ledge or in dense thickets. The kittens are born with faint marks on their back and sides, and dark streaks on their faces that fade as they grow. They open their eyes after about nine days. They nurse for about three to four months, and at five months of age the mother takes them out hunting. They stay with her until the next breeding season. Bobcats are sexually mature at about one year for the females, and two years for the males. Young males disburse and travel long distances in search of an unoccupied territory, while females often settle near or partially within the range of their mother. They have been known to live over 33 years in captivity, and 12 - 13 years in the wild.
Although there are large numbers of bobcats in zoos, they breed poorly. Their reproductive problems in captivity may be due to the same factors that limit reproduction in other small cats. The lack of privacy, proximity to large numbers of humans, noise and other disturbances are not conducive to successful reproduction and infant rearing in shy, secretive animals.
Bobcat skins are in high demand for the fur trade, in particular their spotted belly fur. In the past 20 years, the bobcat has been the most heavily harvested and traded of the cat species. Roughly half of all small cat skins in legal world fur markets are North American bobcat and lynx. Although this harvest seems likely to continue, it is regulated. The far more serious threat to these cats is the continuing habitat fragmentation, loss of habitat, and persecution by farmers and ranchers. To maintain viable populations, land managers must develop a better understanding of the habitat requirements of these fascinating little cats.
On a regional level, the bobcat is totally protected in ten USA states; in Canada hunting and trade is regulated; and in Mexico hunting is regulated in five states and shooting of suspected livestock predators is permitted. The degree to which these little cats have been studied and managed in North America makes them probably the most thoroughly examined species in international trade today. CITES has placed them on Appendix II.
International Society For Endangered Cats (ISEC) Canada
   