Welcome to Teen Parent Connections (TPC)!
Why TPC?
In Sonoma County from 1998-2005, while the overall teen birth rate remained lower than the California rate, the teen birth rate among Hispanics was higher than the California rate for Hispanics. In the southwest and southeast areas of Santa Rosa, teen birth rates are more than twice as high as the annual Sonoma County rate for this population (). Although the California birth rate remains lower than the national rate, and substantially lower than demographically comparable states, such as Texas, the birth rates for California and the nation are four times higher than the median teen birth rate of other Western democracies (). Sonoma County MCAH Profile, December 2007 No Time for Complacency, Spring 2008
The Teen Parent Connections program is designed to minimize the adverse consequences of adolescent parenting for mother and child by promoting healthy moms and healthy babies, encouraging positive parenting practices, delaying subsequent pregnancies and promoting self sufficiency.
Teen Parent Connections provides programs that encourage positive life style choices to empower young parents and assist them in planning for a healthy future. "If you are 18 and under and you're pregnant or already have a child, Teen Parent Connections can help you have a healthy baby, stay in school, budget your money, plan a career, and be the best parent you can be!"
Our Mission
To use case management to enhance, through association with families and community resources, the health, educational potential, economic opportunity, and self-sufficiency of adolescents during pregnancy and parenthood, and to promote healthy family relationships.
To develop nurturing relationships in which case managers and adolescents served by the program can work together to ameliorate the untoward effects of early pregnancy.
To promote the development of collaborative, integrated systems of care to support the adolescents during pregnancy and parenthood, support the children, and help these adolescents make healthy lifestyle choices.
To respect the unique culturally defined needs of our various client populations and communities.
Some documents on this Web Site are saved in Adobe Acrobat format. If you do not own a copy of Acrobat Reader, you may for free. download it
For more information, please contact: 625 5th Street Santa Rosa, CA 95404 Phone: 707-565-4480 Fax: 707-565-4499
Teen Parent Connections