 
Preparing for a Job Interview
begins with conducting good background research on the company, the position and even the people you will be meeting. Find out how to do this company research and which resources to use.Preparing for a job interview
When preparing for a job interview, many people are unfamiliar with how to start the research process. Which traditional and electronic resources are the best to use?
We have simplified the interview preparation process by guiding you to easy-to-use internet and other business resources.
Our guidelines show you how to get the information you need to stand out as the winning job candidate in your job interview.
Review these basic rules before beginning your research
It is easier to find out information about a publicly held company than privately owned organizations because public companies are legally required to make certain information available.
When researching a subsidiary of a company start with the parent company or holding corporation. You can then drill down into the subsidiary information.
Nationally known companies are easier to research than local firms. Check whether the company is part of a bigger, national organization and start your research there.
Internet information is generally more up to date than print sources (directories). News in journals and newspapers is obviously more current but a company has to have been news-worthy to get into these publications.
Use a variety of sources, when preparing for a job interview, to get the most valid information. Remember to consider the source of the information. A web search will give you data from a variety of sources, it is up to you to recognize reputable and valid information. Information from the company website is usually the most reliable but if you have gone to other sites or sources try and validate the information you get by cross referencing with another source.
is covered for you in detail at and using .How to conduct the company research conducting an internet research other research sources
What can I do if I cannot find any information on the company on the internet?
Before conducting your interview preparation, make sure you have the full and proper company name. Sometimes a company is commonly referred to by a different name to the registered name. Check whether it is a subsidiary of a larger corporation and if so focus on the parent company.
Private companies may be difficult to get information on. You can refer to Ward's Business Directory of US Private and Public Companies. Your local library should have this directory. Alternatively contact the company directly and see if they can provide you with any information.
Preparing for an Interview