Online Chat!
MO Standard Hoof Caresimplifies accurate evaluation and humane maintenance of healthy hooves. Based on the predictable placement of the underlying structures of the hoof, the MO Hoof Graph establishes an ideal model of the equine digit. Graphing an ideal hoof using a 1/6 grid informs the individual of a hoof innate signs of form, flexibility, balance, and stability. As one evaluates, trims, and grooms more hooves, a mental image of the ideal hoof helps reveal the true landmarks common to every hoof, even to those with less than ideal form. The MO Hoof Mapallows for the projection of these landmarks onto real hooves, thus enabling hoof care providers to calculate heel height, locate the hoof center of balance, and determine toe length with accuracy. Along with adequate movement, grooming hooves closer to the ideal using the mapping techniques suggested in the following chapter makes possible the restoration of hooves distorted by poor hoof form, without guesswork and without attaching anything to the hoof.
Martha Olivo has been asked for years to document the process of hoof trimming that she has demonstrated in her Whole Horse Trim clinics. She is now writing a book on how to trim the hoof using the Martha Olivo Standard of hoof care. Natural hoof trimming for the horse, donkey, and mule are covered in a step-by-step process with lots of photos and easy to follow diagrams. Martha is also including information about the "infinity environment" and describes how any horse owner or public facility can build lanes to get horses to move more to improve hoof form. This book is a must have for every horse owner! Check back at this website -TMyou will be able to purchase the book here!
MO Standard Hoof Care Training and Certification Program
MO Standard Hoof Care was developed as a means to share health preserving horse and hoof care information. MO Standard Hoof Care offers and further explains how to trim hooves in the 1-day Hoof Care Presentations 5-day Hoof Groom Course. There are no pre-requisites and the information presented is suitable for both equine health professionals and horse owners alike.
NEW!
Get a sneak preview of Martha's Hoof Graph! Ms. Olivo has developed the Hoof Graph,a simple but thorough method of understanding the form and function of healthy hooves. This method has helped hundreds of "Hoof Grooms" learn to decipher and care for hooves. Martha's new book explains how the Hoof Graph can be used to map each hoof. Once mapping is complete, you've got a powerful visual aid to serve as a guide for evaluating hoof form and implementing the MO standardized trim!
View the Hoof Graph
Ms. Olivo has also popularized sitting down to work on the hooves, as opposed to standing bent over. There is far less danger when no iron or nails are involved. Human back problems are less of an issue, too. This safer, more relaxed and informed way of administering hoof care is revolutionizing the hoof care industry.
Who is Martha Olivo?
Martha Olivo was a farrier for 25 years before she became aware of the natural power of the hoof and its profound influence on the Whole Horse(tm). Since 1999 Ms. Olivo has traveled throughout the United States and has been to Canada, Germany and Australia learning and sharing knowledge about this most vital organ of the horse's body. Ms. Olivo's gypsy style of traveling has enabled her to carry information first hand to thousands of people - farriers, natural hoof care providers, veterinarians, chiropractors, massage therapists and especially to everyday horse owners. Ms. Olivo's informative lectures cover hoof care from ancient times to the present day. She explains how, over the ages, humans developed horse husbandry methods of confinement and shoeing that became tradition, dispite its disregard for the basic needs of the horse - a herbiverous herd-dwelling prey animal. The effects on the hooves and on the Whole Horse have been and continue to be devestating. Laminitis, founder and navicular syndrome have become frighteningly common, and take a horrible toll on horses the world over every year.
© 2006 Martha Olivo.   All Rights Reserved.Copyright