Parts can be obtained in different forms from a range of sources: Skilled MG engine re-builders can create engines with high performance components such as pistons, cams and valves. Most models benefit from these developments. The MG Car Company of NZ has such staff Stocks are comprehensive, Spanning from Pre war M.G. through to the M.G. R V8. Suppliers of the full range of MG parts from their large stocks. If you are interested in parts and spares for any of the:- pre-war MGs from the . Or Post-war models such as the MG Car Co of NZ Ltd sells parts. For the company has a long association with MG Car clubs since 1977 contact The home of the famous "new" Brayshaw MGBs. Rod Brayshaw has developed MG Car Co of New Zealand Ltd, into the foremost MG restoration shop in New Zealand. With award winning restoration of Vintage and Classic Cars to world-class standards - 37 years of excellence. Presently The MG Car Co of NZ have MGs ranging from rare early pre-war models to post war MG classics and up to late models under restoration in their workshop for discerning owners from all round the world. The MG Car company of New Zealand know and love the MG T series of cars (including the TA, TB, TC, TD, and TF). The "T" sports car produced from 1936 to 1955 is a most rewarding MG restoration project for both owner and company. We will be happy to advise you on what we can do for your MG. Since 1969 we have restored 25 MG TF's. Two TF 1500 Midgets have won outright at the prestigious Ellerslie Concourse. Stockists of new, used parts, MG books, MG Enthusiasts magazine. Our stock of original "new old stock" NOS MG spare parts are selling well, due to the discerning owner seeking originality for their MG's.
MG Car Company of New Zealand Ltd.
The MG Car Company of New Zealand Ltd. is New Zealand's leading sports car spare parts company, distributing new and second hand spare parts through out Australasia.
MG CAR SPARE PARTS - finding spares
OME suppliers should be your first call. We recommend that you try MG re-conditioners and service agents. The MG Car Company of NZ currently holds stocks of some unique parts.Original Manufacturer's Equipment (OME)
Parts from other models of Morris etc vehicles plus suppliers such as Lucas electrical, SU fuel pumps etc are good sources of alternative parts. For example for some of the T series parts from Morris 10 /12 are suitable replacements. We can advise you on suitability.Morris/Austin/BMC vehicle parts plus equipment suppliers
Manufacturers of items cylinder head gaskets & gasket kits, brake linings, transmission kits, tyres are still obtainable. We have contracts with a number of suppliers. MG body parts sourced from small producers e.g. grills, radiators, sills. We both manufacture and we can obtain parts for clients.Independently manufactured parts
Re-engineered and/or rebuilt MG parts
Second-hand parts have always been highly sought after worldwide. However many will be in a worn or damaged state and will require inspection by an experience MG engineer. They can be you only starting point but may require extensive repair and modification. Wreckers' yards, parts swap meetings and dealers are all good sources.Second-hand parts
MG SPARE PARTS DIVISION
C type Midget, D type Midget, M type Midget, F type Magna, L type Magna, K Magnette, N type Magnette, J type Midget or P type Midget, SA, VA, WA
TA, TB, TC, TD & TF Midgets.
PLUSMGA, MGB, MGC, Midget, & Sprite
The MG Car Company of New Zealand.
BRAYSHAW MGB DIVISION