Laird Technologies Develops New Phase Change Material for Intel®
Products Offer High Performance, Reliability and Stability for the Most Sophisticated Computer Processing Products
St. Louis, Missouri, USA - May 1, 2008
Laird Technologies, Inc., a global leader in the design and supply of customized performance-critical components and systems for advanced electronics and wireless products, today announced two new products in its T-pcmphase change line of thermal interface materials, T-pcm™ 670 and T-pcm 680™. The new products are optimized for Intel Penryn Quad-core mobile processor. The unique material formulation softens at regular chip operating temperatures to fill the microscopic irregularities found in the surfaces of the microchip package and heat-sink. The proprietary mix of thermally conductive fillers and resins minimizes resin migration and pump-out to extend the lifetime of the electronic device. Both T-pcm™ 670 and T-pcm 680™ meet the requirements of Intel next generation mobile Quad Core CPU - Penryn, and pass Intel performance and reliability requirements. T-pcm™ 670 and T-pcm™ 680 phase change materials are inherently tacky for easy application and flexible for easy handling. Laird TechnologiesT-pcm™ phase change thermal interface materials are engineered to improve the functionality and processing speeds and meet the demanding thermal, reliability, and cost requirements of computer applications found in computer notebooks, desktops, and servers. All T-pcm™ phase change thermal interface materials exceed the requirements of the RoHS Directive 2002/95/EC, issued January 2003, and the tighter environmental specifications embraced by Laird Technologiesworldwide OEM customers. "With the launch of T-pcm™ 670 and T-pcm™ 680, Laird Technologies is targeting mobile PCs and other applications where reliability and performance are critical considerations," said Michael Sutsko, Laird TechnologiesGeneral Manager, Thermal Products Business Unit. "These products build on our existing T-pcm™ technology and are ideal for customersmost demanding electronic thermal applications. We are pleased to help deliver industry-leading performance and reliability to Intel next generation mobile platform."
Laird Technologies designs and supplies customized, performance-critical products for wireless and other advanced electronics applications. The company is a global market leader in the design and supply of electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding, thermal management products, mechanical actuation systems, signal integrity components, and wireless antennae solutions, as well as radio frequency (RF) modules and systems.  Custom products are supplied to all sectors of the electronics industry including the handset, telecommunications, data transfer and information technology, automotive, aerospace, defense, consumer, medical, and industrial markets. Laird Technologies, a unit of Laird PLC, employs over 14,000 employees in more than 40 facilities located in 14 countries. For additional information or your nearest Laird Technologies representative, contact: Tel:         (866) 928-8181 or (636) 898-6000 Fax:        (636) 898-6100 Internet:  www.lairdtech.com e-mail:    sales@lairdtech.comAbout Laird Technologies, Inc.
© 2008 All rights reserved.  Laird Technologies and its logo are trademarks of Laird Technologies, Inc.  Other products, logos, and company names mentioned herein, may be trademarks of their respective owners.Trademarks
© Copyright 2009 Laird Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.