Click to view 100% or to see more.
Intuitive Navigation:  
TaxSlayer's navigation is well-designed and easy to follow.  They've made jumping from section to section quick and painless, and every button and link goes to exactly what's expected.  There's even a nice menu on the left side of the screen where you can move to another section, calculate and print your return, and add multiple state returns.
Novice-Friendly:  
One of the most important features to new or inexperienced tax preparers is a site's help system.  TaxSlayer shines in this area, so if you get stuck, or just want a little clarification, help is often a click or short phone call away.
Ease of Sign-up:  
It only takes about a minute to begin preparing returns.  Just enter some basic info, choose a user name and password, and off you go.
Feature Set:  
TaxSlayer's interview process makes it apparent what information is needed on most pages. Many terms have a clearly visible question mark next to them that gives a detailed explanation should you get confused. Their navigation menu on the left side of each page makes it easy to move to any section at will, and their refund/owe meter lets you know where you stand with the IRS.  If you are audited, TaxSlayer professionals will advise and help you prepare your documents for the IRS, which is a big plus in our book.
Help/Documentation/Search:  
TaxSlayer's help center answers a good number of frequently asked questions.  The Tax Tips section gives tax advice on subjects ranging from tax law changes, claiming dependents, and filing for military personnel.  They even have a tutorial video showing how to use the site. If you need to call them, their phone number is clearly displayed on each page. It's not toll-free, but we generally got through within two or three minutes.  They also give free email support and respond within a few hours to most questions.
Summary:  
TaxSlayer has become a viable option for preparing and filing your tax returns. Their support is first-rate and they continually make their products better.  At $19.95, TaxSlayer is a good choice if you're not filing anything too complex.
 