A Blog about Children, Toys and Being in Business!!
     
January 22nd, 2009
 
The rising popularity of direct selling over the last few years means there are now over 440, 000 people across the UK working as self-employed agents for companies such as Avon , Body Shop at Home , Virgin Vie and Tish Tash Toys . Once considered the preserve of women who wanted part-time work to fit around their family commitments, direct selling now appeals to many sections of the population regardless of their gender, age or background. This rise in popularity has been particularly marked within the over 50s: 25% or 1 in 4 of direct sellers are now aged 50 or over.
So what makes MLM or network marketing so popular amongst the over 50s? The key is perhaps the flexibility of the work. For those people in their 50s and 60s looking for a part-time income to boost their pension, what better than a job where you can choose the hours that you work and location of your work?
As well as those looking for a little extra money, there are those who need to work around family commitments. Each week, a quarter of families across the UK, use grandparents for childcare. This trend towards more childcare being provided by Grandparents is likely to accelerate as formal childcare costs rise and the credit crunch forces more parents to work full-time. However, the knock-on effect for grandparents is that it is difficult to find work that fits around these new responsibilities.
As a work-from-home job, direct selling offers grandparents the opportunity for flexible work, whilst still allowing them to help out with the grandchildren. In addition there are also many over-50s who have taken early retirement, but are not ready for a life of leisure quite yet. Direct selling offers a challenge and opportunity to try something new, utilising their life and work skills whilst gaining extra income.
Due to the current economic situation there has been an increase in unemployment. When this occurs, the over 50s and 60s are often the most severely affected, because they may find securing new employment more difficult than younger workers. Direct selling is one opportunity that does not discriminate on the basis of age. Indeed, the Direct Selling Association says the key to the rise of direct selling is that people from all walks of life, of all ages and all levels of educational achievement can experience success, offering a genuine equal opportunity.
So if you are over 50 and looking for a new challenge, a way to boost your pension , and an opportunity to meet new people, why not join thousands of over 50s and try direct selling?
Article by Bridgette Barrett
Work from Home Opportunities on Mum and Working
January 17th, 2009
The number of direct selling companies providing opportunities for parents  particularly mums  is rapidly increasing. In todays financial climate, the number of people needing to earn extra money and be able to work around family commitments is on the rise. Family-friendly jobs can be hard to find. However, the Mum and Working website specifically looks for family-friendly companies with genuine opportunities in direct selling.
Direct selling is nothing new: Usborne Books have sold their beautifully illustrated books since the 1970s, Avon - the leading direct seller of beauty products  started trading in 1939, and Betterware have been a direct seller of home wares since 1928. These companies  and many more  can be found advertising on Mum and Working.
If you have young children, then perhaps a company such as Mini IQ may be suitable for you. Mini IQs associates sell childrens books, toys and games, all carefully selected to stimulate childrens development. Alternatively, there is Childs Play , the international publisher of a range of books and resources. There is also a new company - Poppys Books - who sell an excellent range of books from a variety of publishers, including Walker Books and MacMillan.
If books are not for you, there are also toy companies and sellers of childrens fashion. As well as Tish Tash Toys , there is also When I was a Kid , which was set up by Linda Warner to sell a range of traditional toys. If you are more interested in fashion, then Arabella Miller might be for you. It is one of a number of new direct sellers who sell childrens clothes. It was set up by a mother who was struggling to find organic cotton clothing for her daughter in order to reduce the skin irritation she was experiencing. For those looking for something different in childrens wear there is the funky Stardust Kids with clothing inspired by punk, rock and urban culture. There is also Knitti , with its beautiful range of knitted clothes. To sell a wider range of childrens products, such as toys and nursery furniture, you could try Magic Fairy Wings . Alternatively, there is Little Green Tots , whose baby and childrens products are all ethically sourced.
If you fancy a break from thinking about children, then why not work for a company selling products aimed at adults? For people with a chocolate passion, there is Coco Moyo , whose demonstrators do chocolate tasting and making events, or Chocolates for Chocoholics , whose distributors do parties in the run-up to Christmas and Easter. If your talents lie in the kitchen, then perhaps being a Pampered Chef or My Secret Kitchen consultant would suit you. Pampered Chef consultants sell a wide range of kitchen equipment, whereas My Secret Kitchen sell food products such as their beer bread mixes.
If you prefer to stay out of the kitchen, and DIY or gardening are your hobby, why not consider becoming an agent for Girlie Gardening or Tomboy Tools , selling a fantastic range of products to brighten up any gardening or DIY activity.
At the other end of the spectrum, there are the jewellery and beauty product companies such as Virgin Vie and Body Shop at Home . Virgin Vie  was set up in 1997 as part of the Virgin group - the consultants sell beauty products, jewellery and homewares. The Body Shop at Home consultants sell the familiar products that we all know, together with products not available through any other Body Shop outlets.
Whatever you are interested in selling, Mum and Working has found a number of exciting opportunities to earn some extra income, meet new people, and have fun.
Article by Bridgette Barrett - recuitment consultant & agent for Tish Tash Toys. to find out more about working from home with Tish Tash Toys. Click here
 
January 14th, 2009
Article by Bridgette Barrett
Whilstmost of our shopping is still done in person, more and more people are turning to the internet as a way of making purchases without having to leave the comfort of their sofas. This has led to an increase in people earning a living by selling on the internet. On Ebay alone it is estimated that 75,000 people make a full-time living by buying and selling on the site. Nearly 4% of all purchases are now made online - an increase of 12% over the last year. One specific way to make a living on the internet is through drop shipping.
Drop shipping is a method of product delivery. It is also known as direct dispatch. The concept is very simple, and is increasingly being use by smaller companies such as Stardust Kids , as well as the dedicated dropshipping sites like Dropshipland , Doba and UK Dropship Group .
Dropshippers hold large quantities of stock which they list on their site. Once you have paid to register with a drop shipper, you can then list their products on your own website or Ebay. Customers buy the product, making their payment for the product and shipping to you. Once you have the payment, you then order the product from the drop shipper at wholesale price, and it is delivered to the customer directly. The difference between the retail price and the wholesale price is your profit. This is known as the drop ship chain.
At its best, drop-shipping has many advantages. It means that the retailer does not have to carry any stock and products are not purchased until an order has been made (meaning there is no possibility of over-ordering and ending up with surplus stock). There is no need to pay rent for premises or storage, so the overall financial investment is low - all that is required is a signing up cost with a drop shipper.
As with all business models, there are some risks involved. The retailer has no control of delivery speed and is reliant on the drop shipper to fulfil the order. The retailer also doesnt get to actually see the product, making it more difficult to vouch for the quality.
With many people looking to earn extra money during the recession, drop shipping offers a relatively low risk way of making an income. However, it is always important to ensure that anyone looking to start drop shipping does their research and only deals with reputable drop shippers.
LOOKING FOR A WAY TO EARN EXTRA - LOOK NO FURTHER SEE WWW.TISHTASHTOYS.COM
Article by Jackie Smith  Mum to four year old Jake in Bristol
 
 
 
1. The amazing RAINBOW HUMMING TOP is at number one. It might be more of a traditional toy, but kids of all ages will enjoy making it spin around and hearing the lovely humming sound it makes. I can remember having one when I was younger and I thought it was the best thing ever. Also, its great value at 8.99 - a must for any toy box!
2. My number 2 is TEA FOR TWO - every little person should have one. It’s great for developing children’s imaginations and I’m told the biscuits taste good too! It’s excellent value at 9.99 - the picture in the catalogue/website doesn’t do it justice, you really need to see it to realise what an excellent gift it would be.
3. I’ve chosen one of our best sellers next  the delightfulFIRST PUZZLES- my favourite is the SNAIL PUZZLE . The bright colours and shapes are very eye catching and the big pieces are just the right size for little fingers. I also like the LADYBIRD JIGSAW - great for practicing counting the spots as your little one gets a bit older. At 6.99 you can’t go wrong!
4. I just love the colourful musical Alsuna CLARINET - easy to use and it makes a great sound. The kids really think they are making beautiful music and another great thing is that 1 goes to the Rainbow Trust children’s charity.
5. The terracotta clay brick. TEIFOC KITS If you can afford the large castle, go for it. It will give you hours of fun and pleasure and you can build it again and again using extra mortar and cement. Buy an extra trowel or two so everyone can join in building. Dads and Uncles will be fighting the juniors to use this educational construction set.
6. A LIGHTNING BUG children’s torch is a great gift and one of our most popular toys. It makes an excellent night light if your child is afraid of the dark or they want to read under the bed covers. It is magic as goes out on its own. It is also great for holidays, halloween, bonfire night……. the list is endless. pre-school
7. The PIGGY PURSE is a great cheaper present (only 3.99) and one that any little girl will love. It is pink and soft and just big enough to keep all their important things in like hair slides, , necklaces, etc. bracelets
8. For babies first Christmas, why not buy TINY THE ELEPHANT . He is full of lots of surprises - squeaks and crinkles and he’s really colourful too. I just love the butterfly on his tummy! A must for the new little one in your life!!
9. Looking for the ideal game for your slightly older children (5+) which is both fun and educational at the same time, then look no further - go for. TELL THE TIME LOTTO It will keep your youngsters happy for hours and also help them learn all about telling the time. Don’t forget to look after all the bits and you will enjoy it all year round - sunny days, rainy days …. any day.
10. Last, but not least in our is for the more active child - the top ten toys FIRST CRICKET SET . Amazing value at just 3.99 and just what you need to work off that lovely family lunch (weather permitting). Leave it in the car and it will be there for you to use any time - in the park, at the seaside, any where there is an open space. Let’s encourage some to get started. young cricketer’s
This list is by no means exhaustive and I am sure you would be able to find at least another 10 or more to add to your Christmas or birthday shopping list by just looking through the amazing Tish Tash Toys website!
Article by Jackie Smith  Mum to four year old Jake in Bristol
Jackie is an agent for Tish Tash Toys.
to find out more about how you can work from home with children’s wooden toys. Click here