Radio Broadcasting DJ Schools - Ohio & Illinois Centers for Broadcasting
As one of the best broadcasting schools, we aim to make students dreams a reality. Each of our radio television broadcasting colleges uses dynamic, up-to-date curriculum developed and delivered by seasoned professionals. Our dj schools also enable even part-time disc jockeys to make money doing what they love.
Radio Broadcasting Schools to Radio Station: Tips on Getting an Radio Internship
By ohiocenterbroadcasting
Are you thinking about applying for an internship position at a radio station as part of your radio broadcasting school’s curriculum? Great! Along with hands-on training at , an internship is a great way to get the experience that radio stations are looking for. But competition can make it tough to land that internship, especially if you’re aiming for a particular station or format. radio broadcasting schools
Here are some tips that will make your internship application stand out and give you a better chance getting that internship at the station you want.
Lots of people at radio broadcasting schools send their internship applications in those plain, regular manila envelops. Why not make your application stand out? Using the Post Office’s Flat Rate 2-3 day mailers makes your application look different, and even more important. Plus, it costs less than $4.00.
Always follow your application with a phone call between one to two weeks after you send your internship application.
If you can’t contact the radio station program director via phone, then try to visit the radio station when you’re not attending radio broadcasting schools during the day and ask to see him or her. Be prepared to explain why you’re so fond of the station and why you would like to intern there.
Remember: Persistence pays. Even if you don’t get an internship to the first couple of stations you apply from your radio broadcasting schools, don’t give up. Leave a resume with your current phone number and email, you may get a phone call for an interview later. Your training at radio broadcasting schools gives you an advantage over traditional colleges.
Tags: , , Radio Broadcast Jobs radio broadcasting schools Radio Jobs
This entry was posted on January 16, 2009 at 8:45 am and is filed under , . You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from your own site. Radio Broadcast Jobs Radio Jobs RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback
Leave a Reply