Contact Us
(60 minutes) Achieve the most effective fitness program possible with personal training. Our highly experienced and certified trainers will give you individualized attention that motivates and speeds you toward your goals in the most time-efficient manner. (7 minutes) Brown your body with our quick tanning space age machine. (60 minutes) Soothe and relax your body and mind as our signature massage eases tired muscles and takes you on a journey of peace and tranquility. We begin with refreshing towels gently wrapped around your feet, continue to melt away stress and tension with this comforting treatment, and end with a calming face massage. (60 minutes) Raki is the national drink of Turkey. It is a distilled alcoholic beverage that is strongly aromatized with anise. Raki is mixed with warm oil to penetrate sore muscles for a more invigorating massage. Rakis natural properties help with muscular aches and its fresh aroma will awaken the senses. The aromatherapy benefits of this massage are mildly euphoric and cheering. (60 minutes) We use sea salts that are naturally infused with minerals including magnesium, potassium, iron, calcium chloride, and sodium from Turkeys Tuz G l or Salt Lake. Then buff your body invigoratingly to give your skin a wake-up call. The treatment is completed with an application of lotion combined with olive oil from the Aegean Sea. (60 minutes) The caviar facial is a luxury like no other. Combining the latest technology of caviar to create a revolutionary anti-aging treatment. It rehydrates and improves the elasticity of the skin leaving it supple while decreasing visible signs of aging. (30 minutes) Milk works such wonders for the skin. Immerse yourself in a bath that is both nutritious and fragrant. The lactic acid in milk is an alpha hydroxy acid, a natural material that dissolves the glue that holds dead skin cells together. This milk can cleanse the skin down to its deepest layers. Especially helpful for mature and dry skin. (60 minutes) The aroma therapy massage begins with your selection of our pure aromatherapy oil blends. This oil is warmed and applied slowly and gently, providing relaxation, stress relief, and a refreshing boost to your mood. Enjoy this respite and pleasurable experience. Partake in this Ottoman tradition of cleansing your skin. Using a kese, we scrub away the dead skin cells allowing your skin to breathe again. This allows the circulation in your body to improve. Next comes a soap massage from head to toe under a pleasant smelling cloud of lather. (60 minutes) Revitalize and relax yourself with our vigorous massage that is recommended for muscle fatigue, chronic pain, and sports enthusiasts. Our therapists use a variety of techniques to increase circulation, unwind muscle tension, and restore restricted movement. (60 minutes) Just the two of you  celebrate and share your spa experience in our private couples spa suite. (60 minutes) Our nourishing facial has a relaxing and uplifting effect. This deluxe treatment for both men and women offers cleansing, toning, exfoliation, and a revitalizing mask. Your skin will emerge feeling radiant and glowing. (60 minutes) Cocoa is rich in antioxidants, (Vitamin A and E) which increase blood circulation and are natural mood-boosters. Perfect for any skin type to exfoliate and moisturize. The sensory appeal of chocolate will inspire and delight you. Leaves you glowing from the inside out. (60 minutes) Experience the texture of oiled stones as the soothing heat penetrates deeply to relieve your tensions. Stones are used to massage the entire body. Your therapist places the hot stones on specific areas of the body. The heat within the stones helps penetrates into your muscle tissue, inducing relaxation and releasing unwelcome toxins. (30 minutes) Our half hour massage treatment is given as a mini tune-up and focuses specifically on the back, neck, shoulders and scalp. If guests are short on time and high on stress, they should try this treatment. (30 minutes) Lie down, listen to the music, and put your feet up. We will begin with a foot scrub and proceed with warm towels sending you on the road to pure relaxation. We then follow this up with a lavish foot massage, using a healing cream that feels luxurious. (30 minutes) Close your eyes, and enter into a time of serenity with this traditional Indian experience. Warm oil is applied to nourish your hair and scalp, followed by a slow tension relieving head massage. A gentle pressure point face massage will bring to a close............Our idea of an escape! To make an appointment or to discuss the perfect Spa Treatment or Fitness Program, contact .
About Amrita Spa & Wellness
Indulge in an oasis of paradise spread over an entire floor reserved for your exclusive Spa & Wellness retreat. Escape the busy pressures of your day and rediscover a quality lifestyle within a convenient urban setting. 3,000 square meters, a world of elegant wellness, invigorating aromas, and relaxing touches await you.
With state-of-the-art fitness facilities, private fitness training, daily group exercise classes, an indoor pool, steambath, sauna, and traditional Turkish Hamam  the choices are yours.
Amrita Spa
Amrita Spa has twelve spa treatment rooms including a solarium and nail suite. Spa treatments include Amrita Signature Massage, The Classic Facial, Turkish Hamam Experience, Aroma Therapy, Sea Crystal Polish, Milk Mousse, Raki Massage, Chocolate Body Scrub, Sweet Hearts Massage, Foot Paradise and more.
Whether its through treatments that heal and detoxify, relax and soothe, or sessions to improve your physical condition, our experienced and professional staff treat you with unparalleled personal attention.
Amrita Spa & Wellness is a place to relax, refresh and rejuvenate.
Hours of Operation
Amrita Spa & Wellness facilities are open daily from 6:30 am to 10:00 pm. Our spa services operate daily from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm.
Fitness Facilities
Treadmills Elliptical Trainers Recline Bikes Upright Bikes Stairmaster Lat Machine, Abductor, Adductor, Leg Extension Leg Curl, Abdominal Crunch, Arm Curl, Chest Press Cable Crossover, Delt Machine, Pectoral Machine Multipower, and Free Weights Two Exercise Studios
Amrita Boutique
Balance your body and mind with an intriguing selection of products. We offer relaxation products, beauty products for both men and women, spa products, and international products, all available at our Amrita Boutique. Spa baskets are ideal gifts for any special occasion.
Energia
Adjacent to the pool, youll find the nutritious Energia, for healthy fresh beverages and a light selection of meals.
Offerings