OHSU's Code of Conduct
OHSU is committed to upholding the following core values in all its endeavors: Achieving excellence in all we do. Creating new knowledge through research and innovation. Providing the highest-quality education for the next generation of health care professionals. Fostering a spirit of collegiality and integrity. Providing compassionate care for our patients. Maintaining a high level of accountability for our use of resources. Encouraging diversity within OHSU; and standing as a role model for service to the community.
 
 
(Below are excerpts of selected OHSU policies cited on this website. It opens the entire policy in a separate browser window. From there you can print the policy or close the new window to return to this page.)The link above the summary works only for those within OHSU.
Policy No. 03-05-025 Affirmative Action Goals: Employment
OHSU shall establish an affirmative action plan including goals and procedures for the purpose of increasing the proportion and effective utilization of minorities and women employed in administrative, technical and faculty positions in programs and departments where minorities or women are under represented.
Policy No. 03-05-030 Equal Opportunity
OHSU provides equal opportunities to all individuals without regard to race, religion, national origin, disability, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, disability, military reserve status, or any other status protected by law. This policy applies to all employment, student and patient related activities.
Policy No. 03-05-032 Harassment
Harassment on the basis of Race, Color, Religion, National Origin, Gender, Age, Disability, Marital Status, Veteran Status, Sexual Orientation, participating in a Civil Rights complaint, use of the Worker's compensation system, use of the Federal Family Medical Leave Act or the Oregon Medical Leave Act, or any other prohibited basis in law is unlawfully and strictly prohibited at OHSU. OHSU administration, faculty, staff and students are responsible for maintaining an environment for work, study and the provision of services free from harassment.