APUS 2008 Catalog - General Information
 
Return to APUS Catalog
Mission Statement
To educate the nation's military and public service communities by providing respected, relevant, affordable, and student-focused online programs, which prepare them for service and leadership in a diverse, global society.
The University System is a respected higher-learning organization known for its distinctive strengths in providing superior and relevant distance learning programs to its learners.  In pursuing this vision, the University System:Vision
Creates interactive, effective learning environments for all constituents.
Serves its constituents diverse personal and professional development needs.
Expands access to affordable programs to underserved learners.
The University System is guided in fulfilling its mission by these shared principles and core values:Core Values
The University System fosters an environment that promotes a life of learning for its constituents and uses feedback from its participants and supporters to improve the quality of its teaching, learning, and support.   Learning:
  The University System holds a strong commitment to high standards in all aspects of its educational activities, learning outcomes, and support services.  It seeks to continuously strengthen the overall effectiveness of its operations. Quality:
  The University System conducts its operations and makes its public representations in an ethical manner.  It assesses its operations in an open and collaborative manner and practices fairness, honesty, and objectivity in dealing with its constituencies.Integrity:
  The University System embraces and promotes diversity in its policies and practices to prepare its learners to live and work successfully in an increasingly diverse society.  It strives to create diverse learning environments by welcoming teachers, learners, and staff that bring diverse ideas, values, backgrounds, and beliefs to the learning and work environment. Diversity:
  The University System supports the rights of its constituents to freely inquire and express their opinions.  It engages and encourages an open exchange of ideas and seeks input from all who wish to participate in its learning programs. Freedom of Inquiry and Expression:
 The University System is accountable to its constituencies and the public for fulfilling its mission in an appropriate manner by openly assessing its operations and by inviting external evaluations by public agencies.Accountability: 
The University System seeks to broaden access to its higher education programs by underserved communities who wish to engage the organization in their learning goals.Access to Underserved:
The University System anticipates and adapts to its changing environment and responds to the needs of the organization and its constituencies in manners both appropriate and timely.Adaptive and Responsive:
  The University System seeks imaginative and effective solutions to its challenges and innovative ways to fulfill its mission.   The University System seeks and nurtures partnerships with its constituents and the communities it serves in creating effective learning environments for its learners.Innovation:
Collaboration: