|| || || || || HOME CALENDAR HANDBOOK PHOTO Gallery Search Contact
 Office ofStudent Life:Student HANDBOOK
In 1870, Stevens Institute of Technology was founded with a bequest from Edwin Augustus Stevens to establish a school of Mechanical Engineering based on scientific principles. The school stood on the edge of the family estate at Castle Point in Hoboken. The lithograph on the wall of the Stevens library shows a stately Victorian mansion, Castle Stevens, standing on the spot where the Wesley J. Howe Center is today. The Stevens family then owned most of present day Hoboken and a large part of northern New Jersey. In the 1800's, Hoboken was a popular summer resort for wealthy New Yorkers. They would take advantage of the ferry service begun by Col. John Stevens to spend an afternoon walking in the Elysian Fields. Local attractions also included Sybil's Cave, just north of Castle Point, where visitors could drink cold spring water that dripped from the walls, or a ride on the Stevens Steam Engine, which ran on a circular track at the south end of town. The Castle was also a prime Hoboken attraction, with its cantilevered walnut staircase in the main hallway, which rose in a semicircle from one floor to the next with no visible means of support. It was considered aesthetically pleasing and a work of engineering genius one example of why the Castle is considered by some as the roots of Stevens Institute. From 1911 until its demolition, the Castle served as a residence and housed several administrative offices. It is survived by a few myths and legends, particularly ghost stories. The well-known ghost, Jan of Rotterdam, was once a resident of Hoboken, whose life was cut short by an Indian raid. He is reputed to roam Castle Point on windy March nights looking for his missing scalp. Rumor also has it that three tunnels, used for the purposes of the Underground Railroad, exist under the Point. Today, the Center stands where the Castle once stood, but time has changed more than the landscape. Stevens now provides at the undergraduate level a well-rounded engineering program as well as comprehensive programs in science, computer science, and humanities. On the graduate level, about 20 programs lead to master's and doctoral degrees. For over 125 years Stevens has offered its traditional programs and is moving into new and exciting areas of modern technological education and research. The Stevens family would no doubt approve.HISTORY AND TRADITIONS
A Brief History of Stevens and Its Castle