ASTM D5250
10.1520/D5250-06 ASTM International is a member of CrossRef.Abstract
This specification contains procedures for evaluating the performance and safety of poly(vinyl chloride) gloves for use in conducting medical examinations, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and handling contaminated medical materials. The products covered by this specification include poly(vinyl chloride) gloves that fit either hand, paired gloves, and gloves by size and packaged sterile or nonsterile or bulk nonsterile. This specification does not include two-dimensional heat sealed poly(vinyl chloride) gloves. An approved lubricant for absorbable dusting powder may be applied to the gloves. Other lubricants may also be used, provided, that their safety and efficacy have been previously established. Both the inside and outside surface of the glove should be free of talc. All products should meet the required degree of sterility, freedom from holes, physical requirements before and after ageing, amount of powder on the glove, tensile strength and ultimate elongation.
This abstract is a brief summary of the referenced standard. It is informational only and not an official part of the standard; the full text of the standard itself must be referred to for its use and application. ASTM does not give any warranty express or implied or make any representation that the contents of this abstract are accurate, complete or up to date.
Significance and Use
The specification is intended as a referee procedure for evaluating the performance and safety of poly(vinyl chloride) examination gloves. The safe and proper use of poly(vinyl chloride) examination gloves is beyond the scope of this standard.
1. Scope
1.1 This specification covers certain requirements for poly(vinyl chloride) gloves used in conducting medical examinations and diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. It also covers poly(vinyl chloride) gloves used in handling contaminated medical material.
1.2 This specification provides for poly(vinyl chloride) gloves that fit either hand, paired gloves, and gloves by size. It also provides for packaged sterile or nonsterile or bulk nonsterile poly(vinyl chloride) gloves.
1.3 This specification does not cover two-dimensional heat sealed poly(vinyl chloride) gloves.
1.4 This specification is similar to that of Specification D 3578
for rubber examination gloves.
2. Referenced Documents
Specification for Rubber Examination Gloves Practice for Rubber-Measurement of Dimensions Test Methods for Vulcanized Rubber and Thermoplastic Elastomers-Tension Test Method for Detection of Holes in Medical Gloves Test Method for Rubber-Deterioration in an Air Oven Test Method for Residual Powder on Medical Gloves ISO 2859 Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Attributes U. S. Pharmacopeia D3578