The Official Guide for GMAT Review, 11th Edition
 
The Official Guide for GMAT Review, 11th Edition
In Stock
 Availability:Usually ships in 1 business days
List Price:
$24.39& eligible for on orders over $25.FREE Super Saver Shipping
You Save:
 
Customer Reviews:
and share your thoughts with other customers. 1 of 1 found the following review helpful:   Jan 26, 2009 The book is useful because it has questions that were asked in the previous tests and it gives you an idea of what type of questions to expect. In plus, there are so many questions you don't feel like you are wasting your time! 1 of 1 found the following review helpful:   Jan 26, 2009 I had limited time to study for the GMAT and figured I would get the official book (along with the Princeton Crash Course book). The example questions in this book are more what like you will see on the GMAT, but I found that the online practice tests were closest to the real thing. The review section in this book will confuse you even if you know the material, and does not cover anything but background so it was pretty worthless. There were also errors in this book (which I was surprised because it is from the GMAC jerks). I would get this book as the questions are pretty difficult and good for practice. 1 of 2 found the following review helpful:   Jan 20, 2009 This is a book that you should pick up somewhat early during you preparation, since it can only help you with accuracy but not with timing. So use this book to improve your understanding of all possible approaches to problem-solving (direct solving/elimination/trial-error etc) and then move on to time-based section tests and full-length tests. What's good about it: 1. The difficulty level and the types of problems are very close to the actual test questions. 2. Good for practice - difficulty level increases towards the end of every chapter. 3. Good supplement for the Official guide 11 4. The solution explanations are very detailed and well-written - please make it a point to read the solutions carefully if you are following this book, read explanations even for the answers you got right - this would ensure that your line of reasoning was correct. What's not so great about it: 1. CERTAINLY NOT A SUBSTITUTE OR ALTERNATIVE TO OG11 and KAPLAN 800 (if you are targetting above 700 scores) 2. Difficulty level is not very high - so do not rely on this book entirely and do not become complacent if you manage to master all problems in this book. Good luck :) 0 of 4 found the following review helpful:   Dec 20, 2008 I thought the book might take 3 or 4 business days, but got the book on second business day. Happy with the shipping. 2 of 3 found the following review helpful:   Nov 27, 2008 Official Guide, as the name suggests, is an official collection of retired GMAT questions, published by GMAC, who own GMAT. Here, I will review this book and its importance in the overall preparation. First, I was short on time in preparing for GMAT and applying in time. So, I didn't had time to go over all the material and guides available in this universe, and then compare and review them. Second, before you start your preparation, or make your plan, you need to understand what GMAT is and what it measures. Then try to understand how much time and effort you will need to achieve a good score, for the school(s) you are applying to. - OG will certainly help you to understand what is GMAT, what it measures and how the different sections test your those capabilities. - The Diagnostic Test, taken under strict examination conditions, will measure your current performance and identify the areas you need to focus. - The Verbal and Quant sections of OG are mainly a collection of past GMAT questions, their answers, and explanatory solutions. - There is very little theory/concepts and very generic strategies. However, do read them carefully. Once you identify the areas you need to focus on, find the guides with concepts, fundamentals, and tips and tricks. Do your research by reading reviews, and consulting your peers who have used them in past. Every guide is different and have different difficulty levels. What works for one may not work for another. For Sentence Correction, I will recommend Sentence Correction GMAT Preparation Guide (Manhattan GMAT Preparation Guides). For other sections, I used an old, borrowed edition of Nova's GMAT Prep Course (with Online Course). Unfortunately, I cannot comment about Kaplan, Princeton, Veritas etc since my aim was to get a good score and not compare all these guides. (I spent 3 weeks overall and got a very decent score) Coming back to OG, here is what I recommend: - Do all the questions. - Do all the questions, at least three times. By doing so, you can master a lot of concepts and calculations. - Do not get discouraged if you get low scores on simulated tests of the other study guides. Actual GMAT level is closest to this OG. Other guides' sample exams have a hidden marketing motive too. They want you to buy their books or take their course. So, their questions' level may not be same as that of actual GMAT. In fact, I found some of them very difficult. (Won't take names, but I took those online free sample exams from those famous names in Study Guides & preps) - If you have time, get GMAC's Verbal and Quant supplements to practice more & more. At last, it's all about speed & accuracy. Best of Luck!Average Customer Review: