We Want To Help!
Asbestos Exposure
Asbestos is a natural fiber that has been used extensively in myriad industries for the last century. While asbestos is prized for its heat and flame resistance, soundproofing, and insulating properties, it also poses significant threats to human health.
Asbestos exposure can lead to serious injuries including , , , and other life threatening diseases. Those who have developed these conditions due to , in the course of , or in other cases of negligent exposure, often have the legal right to seek compensation for their losses and suffering. Read on to learn more about asbestos cancer. asbestosis lung cancer mesothelioma cancer asbestos exposure on the job military duty
Who is at risk for asbestos exposure?
Since a variety of in their operations, folks from diverse occupations are at risk. According to recent data, those at the greatest risk include construction workers, electricians, metalworkers, shipyard employees, maintenance workers, automotive workers, professionals in the oil and power generation industries, miners, and those in other industrial or factory occupations where asbestos have been produced, used or otherwise handled. Dedicated military members are also at .industries and businesses have used asbestos risk of asbestos exposure
Asbestos exposure during military service
Asbestos Exposure in Navy Ships
Family members of exposed workers are also at risk, since workers can unknowingly bring asbestos fibers home on their person, clothing, or equipment. This presents a , when loved ones can inhale or ingest the fibers and subsequently develop illness. secondhand asbestos exposure
People living in areas of natural asbestos or those who live in homes or occupy buildings with asbestos may also be at risk. People who undertake DYI remodeling or other building projects in their homes may inadvertently expose themselves to residential materials that contain asbestos, particularly in homes built before the early 1980s.
Asbestos poses the greatest risk when it is compromised in some way. When asbestos becomes “friable” it can release fibers into the air that cannot be seen by the naked eye. At this point, a person can inhale or ingest these . The development of diseases that result from such exposure often takes years or even decades. A person may suffer such exposure and show no signs of illness or disease for quite some time. asbestos fibers
Asbestos cancer and its dangers
Since the early 1900s, the dangers of asbestos have been known, though they were not widely publicized until the 1970s, when such publicity resulted in the decreased use of asbestos.
Asbestos is known to causes serious harm to humans including a serious lung disease called , a rare but deadly , and several other types of cancer. People who work with or around asbestos containing products and materials are at risk for inhaling invisible that become airborne when the material is compromised in some way. Once these particles become airborne, people inhale and ingest them. Years or even decades later, such exposure can result in serious and even fatal damage to the lungs, stomach, heart and other organs.asbestosismesothelioma cancer asbestos fibers
Asbestos is known to causes serious harm to humans including a serious lung disease called , a rare but deadly , and several other types of cancer. Asbestosis is a non-cancerous disease in which asbestos exposure can lead to scarring of the lungs. While thousands of people have died from asbestosis, this condition is not always fatal, especially when it is caught early. Unfortunately, those who develop mesothelioma do not have the same survival chances. Mesothelioma is an aggressive cancer that is difficult to diagnose and treat. The average survival rate for people with mesothelioma cancer is approximate 18 months following diagnosis. Early detection of this cancer is crucial and can significantly improve one’s prognosis.asbestosismesothelioma cancer
For these reasons, it is important for those who have been to seek regular medical exams to rule out asbestos related diseases, such as mesothelioma cancer.exposed to asbestos
Attorneys for Asbestos Exposure Lawsuits
To learn more about asbestos exposure and your legal rights, please contact our qualified and experienced . asbestos attorneys
CONTACT US
Please fill out the form and someone will be in touch with you shortly
message