Subtotal: $
Trailer Kit - Registration With State Department of Motor Vehicles
Trailer kits are by nature not subject to registration until they are assembled. After a kit trailer is assembled, the assembled trailer may be subject to registration in order to legally tow it on public roads. Trailer registration requirements are regulated by each state and local government. Trailer registration requirements and vehicle code interpretation vary widely from state to state and even between localities within some states. For specific information, contact your . local motor vehicle agency
Registration of a trailer that was assembled from a kit is easy and inexpensive in most states and not even required in a few. In rare cases a state or locality may require an inspection or notarized signature in order to complete registration.We will sign and notarize documents and provide assistance as needed, however each trailer owner is responsible for notary fees, priority mail if requested, and all registration related expenses.
Trailer Kit Registration Documents
In most states a self constructed trailer must be assembled before registration can be completed. The assembled trailer must typically be taken to a local DMV office for verification of the and two documents must be provided for registration: a receipt and a .Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)Manufacters Certificate of Origin (MCO)
is typically required to prove that the trailer was purchased legally. We send a receipt by email for every order that is placed through our store. We will fax or mail a paper receipt upon request. The (VIN) is typically not required to be printed on the receipt, but in rare cases a DMV clerk will ask for this and in even rarer cases they may ask for a notarized signature from the selling dealer. We will provide these additional documents upon request.A receipt
is included with every trailer kit that we sell. This document is required by most states in order to register a self assembled trailer for the first time. The MCO proves that the trailer kit complies with U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements and it establishes the Vehicle Identification Number and the Manufactured Date. For import trailer kits, the MCO is typically shipped with each trailer kit in a plastic zip lock envelope, which is glued or taped to the outside of the number 1 box. For US manufactured trailer kits, the MCO is typically mailed separately.A Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin (MCO)
, a replacement will be provided to the original purchaser. The VIN and Manuf Date is needed to issue a replacement MCO. This information is stamped and printed on a shiny metal ID plate, which is fastened to the tongue of the trailer.If the original MCO is lost
It is best to fill in the blanks in the MCO before going to the DMV for registration.How to Complete the MCO Paperwork
there is a space in the middle of the page, which is labeled "NAME OF DISTRIBUTOR, DEALER, ETC. Due to the way that the kits are packaged and distributed, this space is typically not be filled in ahead of time. If you purchased the trailer kit from us and it is not already filled in, type or print "SportUtilityTrailer.com" in this space.On the front of the MCO
- A trailer kit is not a motor vehicle and is NOT subject to state motor vehicle registration laws UNTIL it is assembled with intent to haul it on a public road. DMV requirements regarding the back of the Certificate of Origin vary widely from state to state and within each state. Some DMV clerks will not require the transfer section to be completed. Some clerks will only ask for your name and address to be filled in.On the back of the MCO
Some DMV clerks may ask for the dealer section to be filled in as if transferring title of an assembled motor vehicle. This section does NOT apply to a self assembled trailer kit and we are NOT required to have a motor vehicle dealer license in order to sell trailer kits. This section does not seem to be verified, stored, or used in any way. However, sometimes not filling it in ahead of time can cause confusion. To avoid possible delays with the registration process, fill in the blanks in the first transfer section as in the following example. Rarely, a DMV clerk will ask that signature in the transfer section be notarized. If this happens, send the MCO to us along with $10 for the notary fee and we will return it signed and notarized.
Department of Motor Vehicles - State by State
48 State Motor Vehicle Departments