: : Cervical Cancer Prevention and Treatment Home What We Do
A nurse provider at Lujeri Tea Estate in Malawi counsels a woman prior to conducting a VIA test
Cervical Cancer Prevention and Treatment
Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women worldwide, with 500,000 new cases and 250,000 deaths reported each year. Over 80% of cases occur in developing countries, where more than 95% of women have never had a cervical smear. Many of these cases can be avoided through early screening and treatment, and now also through vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV), the virus that can lead to cervical cancer.
Jhpiego has been at the vanguard of global efforts to prevent cervical cancer since 1997, when we conducted early clinical trials in Zimbabwe and developed an approach to see and treat cervical cancer in one visit.
In 1999, with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Jhpiego worked with colleagues and stakeholders in Thailand and Ghana to pioneer this unique, medically safe, acceptable and cost-effective approach to cervical cancer prevention for low-resource settings. This approach, known as the single visit approach (SVA), is a low-cost intervention to identify and treat precancerous cervical lesions. It is a simple and practical procedure that can be scaled up nationally to significantly reduce rates of invasive cervical cancer.
Currently, Jhpiego is translating these research results into practice by bringing the single visit approach into routine reproductive health services. Jhpiego works with ministries of health and national stakeholders to implement a sustainable and comprehensive approach to cervical cancer prevention, as illustrated below.
Components of a Comprehensive Cervical Cancer Program
Summaries of Jhpiego's Current Work
A study by Jhpiego in Roi Et province established the safety, acceptability, feasibility and program effort (SAFE) associated with implementing a single visit approach to cervical cancer prevention using visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA) and cryotherapy, as well as the effectiveness of advocacy efforts spearheaded by Jhpiego. As a result, the single visit approach is now part of a two-pronged strategy adopted and funded by the Thai government to prevent cervical cancer. Jhpiego has recently completed an evaluation study focused on how high-quality services have been maintained and how the program has been sustained since external funding was withdrawn in 2005.THAILAND:
Since 2004, Jhpiego has worked closely with the Reproductive Health Unit of the Ministry of Health to in public hospitals and health centers in all three regions of Malawi. As of September 2006, services were being provided in 22 facilities, 7,046 women had been screened and 414 women were treated for suspected pre-cancerous lesions.MALAWI: implement the single visit approach
In collaboration with the Ministry of Health (MOH) of Ghana, Jhpiego conducted a demonstration project from 2001 to 2004. This project was designed to establish the safety, acceptability, feasibility and program effort (SAFE) associated with implementing a single visit approach to cervical cancer prevention, using VIA and cryotherapy, in a real-world, low-resource setting. The two project sites were Ridge Hospital and Amasaman Subdistrict Health Center, both in the Greater Accra Region. Pursuant to this project, services were introduced at two sites in Kumasi. Today, services continue to be offered at all four sites in Ghana, and the MOH has developed plans to further scale up the intervention in other regions of the country.GHANA:
In the Philippines, Jhpiego is providing technical support to the Cervical Cancer Prevention Network Program (CECAP), which is working to eliminate cervical cancer in the country. CECAP is committed to empowering Filipino women against cervical cancer by increasing their awareness about the disease and providing them access to treatment. The Jhpiego -CECAP Network Alliance of Preventive Services is promoting the single visit approach (SVA) as an available form of service for women in the community. CECAP is also working toward the provision of a standard center not only for service, but also for research, education and training for the medical staff, support groups and the public. This center will be a model and referral center for the care and prevention of cervical cancer, especially for the underserved.PHILIPPINES:
Jhpiego is supporting the Ministry of Health's Cancer Sub-Unit to meet its goal of establishing a cervical cancer control program that can be scaled up nationally by 2010. To begin, Jhpiego plans to implement a pilot program in Karawang District in collaboration with the District Health Office. Through this program, Jhpiego will transfer to the MOH staff the skills and resources they will need to replicate the program in other districts.INDONESIA:
In November 2006, Jhpiego received funds to work with the Northwest Province (NWP) health department to introduce the single visit approach into public health facilities as part of NWP's plan to scale up services to 49 community health centers over the next several years.SOUTH AFRICA:
More Information
For more information on Jhpiego's cervical cancer prevention programs, browse the  and in the Media Center. feature articles news releases
For additional resources on cervical cancer prevention, browse our and/or go to our online . CECAP Information Sheet Publications Catalog
   