Career Opportunities
Are you a professional disc jockey who is interested in joining our roster? We offer outstanding career opportunities, but also have commensurately high expectations.
MyDeejay.com, Inc. seeks experienced candidates who possess expertise in wedding protocol, as we perform exclusively for weddings. In addition, candidates must meet the following criteria:
Professional in appearance, elocution and demeanor
Able to communicate and connect well with people
Passionate about a wide variety of music
Technical expertise and the ability to quickly identify and resolve issues with equipment
Ambitious, motivated, and takes pride in his/her work
Committed to making a career of deejaying and being the "best in the business"
In addition, candidates must:
Be willing to be trained on every aspect of the business, including but not limited to: client interviews, customer service standards, equipment setup and maintenance, and performance training; as well as shadowing our current DJs on weekend weddings. The duration of training will be based on DJ's level of experience and skill, but will be a minimum of six months regardless of experience.
Be willing to sign an exclusivity/non-compete agreement with MyDeejay.com, Inc. If you currently have an agreement with another company that would preclude you from doing so, you must first be released from your current agreement.
Be willing to sign a binding contract with MyDeejay.com, Inc. for each event you agree to perform. MyDeejay.com, Inc. guarantees the availability of a specific DJ to perform each client's event; therefore, your availability to us must be guaranteed.
Be willing to travel around the Baltimore/Washington, DC metro area for client interviews, final client meetings, and weekend events at your own expense.
Be willing to take time every day and evening to communicate with prospective and contracted clients, as well as office staff, via email and telephone.
If you meet these criteria and are interested in joining our team, please email Evan Reitmeyer at . Evan@MyDeejay.com
MyDeejay.com, Inc. P.O. Box 86 Columbia, MD 21045-0086 888-GET-MYDJ (Toll-Free)