Brazil: Big, Beautiful and Bold
     Brazil is a country of superlatives:
The largest country in South America with 8.5 million square kilometers extending over almost half the continent
The fifth largest country in the world
São Paulo is the largest city in South America
First in the world for the huge variety of primate amphibian and plant species
Third for bird species
Fourth for butterfly and reptile species
The sixth most populous country
     Though the great beaches and beautiful scenery are splendid, there is much more to Brazil. Add the vast expanses of tropical rain forest, the Amazon river basin, the natural attractions, and the irrepressible Brazilian culture and there is a lot to see! The country is divided into geographical areas, each encompassing at least one state, usually more. In some cases, the distinction between the regions is subtle, in others, such as the contrast between Amazonia and portions of the arid Northeast is dramatic
Northeastern Brazil
     This is the dry, sometimes drought-ridden, interior containing the states of Bahia, Sergipe, Alagoas, Paraiba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceara, Maranhao and Piaui. The main cities include Salvador da Bahia, Recife, Natal, Fortaleza and São Luis. You can expect hot and dry weather or hot and humid conditions depending on location.
Northern Brazil
     This region is also called the Guiana Shield extending from the Andes to the east from the borders of Peru Columbia Venezuela French Guiana, Suriname and Guyane. The great rainforests are in this region. The states of Para, Tocantins, Roraima, Amazonas, Amapa, Rondonia are in this region. The main cities include Belem, Macapa, Manaus, Boa Vista, Porta Velho, and Rio Branco. You can expect tropical heat and humidity.
Western Brazil
     Also called the Brazilian Shield, this region extends from the Amazon south and includes the plateaus and savannahs to the borders of Bolivia and Paraguay. The states of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias are here as is the region of the Pantanal. The federal district of Brazilia is here. Main cities include Campo Grande, Goiana, and Cuiaba. The weather is generally hot and humid.
Southeast Brazil
     This region of Brazil enjoys a more moderate climate with cooler winters. The area includes the states of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Espirito Santo and Minas Gerais and extends from the mountains to the sea. Here you'll find the major cities of Belo Horizonte, Rio do Janeiro, and São Paulo.
Southern Brazil
     Also known as the Parana Basin extending south from São Paulo to Uruguay and Argentina. Forests scrublands savannahs and part of the Pantanal. The states of Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul, and Parana are here. The main cities include Florianopolis, Curitiba and Porto Alegre. The weather is hot and humid but visitors throng to Iguazu Falls.
 