Patch of the Ohio State Highway Patrol.
Agency Overview
1,502 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
1,112 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
Colonel Richard H. Collins, Superintendent
Parent agency
Ohio Department of Public Safety
Districts
http://statepatrol.ohio.gov/
The is a division of the and is the official and de facto agency of Ohio. The several missions of the Patrol include providing roadway , emergency response to all public lands, the investigation of crimes and providing security for the and other dignitaries.Ohio State Highway Patrol Ohio Department of Public Safety highway patrol state police patrol Governor [5]
Contents
[] edit Divisions
Operationally, the Patrol is divided into units whose varying tasks complement the mission of the Patrol to provide safe roadways throughout the state. Operational units include the Office of Field Operations, units specializing in Aviation, a , Crash reconstruction, Inspections, and Criminal Patrol; Human Resource Management, includes Labor Relations, Career Development and the Administrative Investigation Unit; Office of Investigative Services, includes statewide investigation of crimes occurring on state owned or leased property, crime lab, polygraph services, executive protection for the governor, criminal intelligence and computer crime unit; License and Commercial Standards, which provide for oversight of driver's license and commercial vehicle regulations throughout the state; Special Response Team [6]
The Patrol also has administrative offices which include the Offices of Technology and Communication Services, Finance and Logistics Services, Strategic Services and Recruitment and Training. [7]
The Patrol maintains 55 posts, each administered by one of ten districts and responsible for one, two, or three of or the . The Patrol has posts in , , , , , , , , (), , , and . The /Turnpike District operates from three posts on the Ohio Turnpike. Since the turnpike opened in , the has contracted with the Ohio State Highway Patrol to provide law enforcement and assistance to disabled or stranded motorists. They are the only law enforcement agency with on the turnpike. Ohio's 88 counties Ohio Turnpike [8] Findlay Bucyrus Massillon Warren Piqua Columbus Cambridge Chillicothe Portsmouth Scioto County South Point Wilmington Jackson Berea 1955 Ohio Turnpike Commission jurisdiction [] citation needed
[] edit Enforcement activities
Recently the Patrol created a entitled LifeState 1.0, detailing the strategic goals for the Patrol. One of the primary goals of this document was the reduction of traffic crash deaths in Ohio to one per 100 million vehicle miles traveled by the end of . This goal was actually met in . According to the Patrol, its 1,400 Troopers made over 1.4 million professional stops in 2006, with 60 percent being non-enforcement stops to help, assist or educate motorists. Twenty-five percent of enforcement-related stops in 2006 was for either or for an . The Patrol arrested 26,187 drivers for OVI in 2006, and cited 133,650 drivers for aggressive driving. mission statement [9] 2007 [10] 2006 aggressive driving OVI offense [11]
[] edit Staffing
The Patrol has a strength of approximately 1,400 Troopers in addition to 1,000 support personnel, including driver examiners, load limit inspectors, motor vehicle inspectors, motor carrier enforcement inspectors, dispatchers, electronics technicians, and civilian specialists. The Patrol also maintains an all-volunteer auxiliary which was created during World War II to supplement staffing lost to the war effort. [12]
[] edit History
The Ohio State Highway Patrol was founded in under the command of Colonel Lynn Black. Originally, the Highway Patrol used solid black cars with the Flying Wheel on the door. In 1966, white cruisers made their appearance on the . By 1972 all Ohio State Highway Patrol cruisers were white, which they remained until 1982 when they moved to sterling silver. The silver cars remained until 1991. In 1992, they moved to dark grey cruisers marked with the famous "flying wheel" insignia on the doors and a yellow stripe running the length of the car. However, in 2002, the decision was made to transition the force back to white colored patrol vehicles with larger lightbars in response to a number of incidents where troopers were killed by inattentive motorists. The OSHP remains to this day a highly respected organization, having gained CALEA accredditation. 1933 Ohio Turnpike
[] edit In the line of duty
During the history of the Patrol, 38 Troopers have died in performance of their duties. Of that number, two were killed in aircraft accidents, sixteen in either motorcycle or automobile accidents, and eight were struck by vehicles or trains. Further, seven were killed in vehicle pursuits or vehicular assault, three by gunfire, one Trooper was electrocuted and one died from an allergic reaction to a bee sting. [13]
The OSHP demographics are : [14]
Male: 91%