The New Candlelight Theatre is proud to announce its final show in the 2008 Season to Remember Series featuring a Con-artist Salesman, Barbershop quartet, and some Pick-a-Little Ladies in Merideth Wilson The Music Man
For Immediate Release: October 20, 2008 Media Contact: Maureen T. Cotellese, The New Candlelight Theatre, 302.475.2313
The Music Man will open at The New Candlelight Theatre on November 8th and will run until December 21st. With book, music and lyrics by Meredith Willson, this show tells a love story between a smooth talking salesman, Professor Harold Hill and a small town pretty librarian, Marian Paroo. Professor Hill original intent is to con the rural folks of River City, Iowa by promising to start a boys marching band, sell the town the necessary instruments and flee with the money before they ever arrive. Soon after he discovers that he is falling in love with the town librarian and is unable to go through with his plan. The Music Man features unforgettable songs like: eventy-Six Trombones,ill There Was You,and ick-a-little, Talk-a-little.This perfect family event is sure to be this year box office hit having already numerous sold out performances. Leading the cast of The Music Man as Professor Harold Hill is Candlelight favorite Robert Miller. No stranger to the stage, Mr. Miller has been performing in professional theatre since he was 16. Some credits include the national tours of Fiddler on the Roof and Meet Me in St. Louis, as well as the European tour of The Rocky Horror Show. Mr. Miller has also performed in and around Philadelphia at The Walnut Street Theatre, Delaware Theatre Company and Three Little Bakers. He made his directorial debut this past October with New Candlelight production of The Rocky Horror Show. Performing opposite Mr. Miller is Ms. Kemper Florin as Marian Paroo. Ms. Florin most recently performed in The Walnut Street Theatre production of State Fair. She has also performed in numerous operas including her Kimmel Center debut in Mozart Bastien and Bastienne this past January. Some of her favorite roles include Maria in Rogers and Hammerstein Sound of Music, performed with the summer stock company Ohio Light Opera. Some of the supporting cast includes: Robert Lewandowski as Marcellus Washburn, Joseph Kinsolving as Mayor Shinn, Melissa Joy Hart as Eulalie MacKecknie Shinn, Dan Dunn as Tommy Djilis, Lyndie Moe as Amaryllis, and Charlie Harrison as Winthrop Paroo. The production team is lead by director Jeff Reim along with Barrymore-nominated choreographer, Jody Anderson Miller. Musical direction is by Steve Weatherman, set design by John D. Smitherman, costume design by A.J. Garcia, and production stage management by Jackie Goldwurm. The New Candlelight Theatre is located in historic Ardentown, DEive minutes from downtown Wilmington and 30 minutes from Center City, Philadelphia. The Music Man will open on November 8, 2008 and run until December 21, 2008. To purchase tickets, please call The New Candlelight Theatre box office at: 302-475-2313. Tickets may also be purchased online at .