Email This Topic
Cardiac arrest is the terminal event in any fatal disorder. It also may occur suddenly (defined as within 24 h of onset of symptoms in a previously functioning person), and as such occurs outside the hospital in about 400,000 people/yr in the US, with a 90% mortality.
Etiology
In adults, sudden cardiac arrest results primarily from cardiac disease (of all types, but especially coronary artery disease). In a significant percentage, sudden cardiac arrest is the first manifestation of heart disease. Other causes include circulatory shock from noncardiac disorders (especially pulmonary embolism, GI hemorrhage, trauma), ventilatory failure, and metabolic disturbance (including drug overdose).
In children, cardiac causes of sudden cardiac arrest are much less common ( 15 to 20%). Instead, predominant causes include trauma, poisoning, and various respiratory disorders (eg, airway obstruction, smoke inhalation, drowning, infection, sudden infant death syndrome).<
Pathophysiology
Cardiac arrest produces global ischemia with consequences at the cellular level that adversely affect patients following resuscitation. The main consequences involve direct cellular damage and edema formation. Edema is particularly harmful in the brain, which has no room to expand, resulting in increased intracranial pressure and corresponding decrease in cerebral perfusion post-resuscitation. A number of successfully resuscitated patients have short- or long-term cerebral dysfunction.
Decreased ATP production leads to loss of membrane integrity with efflux of K and influx of Na and Ca. Excess Na produces cellular edema. Excess Ca damages mitochondria (depressing ATP production), increases nitric oxide production (leading to formation of damaging free radicals), and in certain circumstances, activates proteases that damage cellular contents.
In neurons, the abnormal ion flux additionally causes depolarization, releasing neurotransmitters. A particularly damaging neurotransmitter is glutamate, which activates a specific Ca channel, worsening intracellular Ca overload.
Inflammatory mediators (eg, IL-1B, tumor necrosis factor-) are elaborated, some of which lead to microvascular thrombosis and loss of vascular integrity with further edema formation. Apoptosis is activated in severe ischemia by numerous mediators, resulting in accelerated cell death.
Symptoms and Signs
In critically or terminally ill patients, cardiac arrest is often preceded by a period of clinical deterioration with rapid, shallow breathing, arterial hypotension, and a progressive decrease in mental alertness. In other cases of cardiac arrest, collapse occurs without warning, occasionally accompanied by a brief ( 5 sec) seizure.<
Diagnosis and Treatment
Diagnosis is by clinical findings of apnea, pulselessness, and unconsciousness. Arterial pressure is not measurable. A cardiac monitor may indicate ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, or asystole. Sometimes a perfusing rhythm (eg, sinus bradycardia) is present; this may represent true pulseless electrical activity (electromechanical dissociation) or extreme hypotension with failure to detect a pulse.
In children, the presenting rhythm is typically bradyarrhythmia followed by asystole; however, about 15 to 20% of children present with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. Thus, the need for rapid defibrillation should be considered in any child with sudden cardiac arrest not preceded by respiratory symptoms.
The patient is evaluated for potentially treatable causes, such as hypoxia, massive volume loss, cardiac tamponade, tension pneumothorax, or massive pulmonary embolus. Unfortunately, many causes will not be identified during CPR. Clinical examination and chest x-ray can detect tension pneumothorax. If available, immediate cardiac ultrasound can detect cardiac contractions and also recognize cardiac tamponade, extreme hypovolemia (empty heart), right ventricular overload suggestive of pulmonary embolism, and focal wall motion abnormalities suggestive of MI. Primary causes must be promptly treated. If no treatable conditions are present but cardiac motion is detected or pulses are present by Doppler, severe circulatory shock is identified and IV pressors (eg, , , or ) are given in addition to volume infusion. norepinephrine LEVOPHEDSome Trade Names
Further treatment is with cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Rapid intervention is essential.
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
(For neonatal resuscitation, see .) Perinatal Problems: Neonatal Resuscitation
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is an organized, sequential response to cardiac arrest, including recognition of absent breathing and circulation, basic life support (BLS) with chest compressions and rescue breathing, advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) with definitive airway and rhythm control, and post-resuscitative care. Rapid initiation of chest compression and early defibrillation (if indicated) are the keys to success. Speed, efficiency, and proper application of CPR directly determine successful neurologic outcome; the rare exception is in profound hypothermia from cold water immersion, in which successful resuscitation may be accomplished even after prolonged arrest (up to 60 min).
After establishing unresponsiveness (tap, shake, or shout) and absence of breathing, the rescuer calls for help (including a defibrillator) and begins basic life support following the mnemonic ABC (Airway, Breathing, Circulation, see Fig. 6: ). Next, defibrillation (D) with a manual or automated defibrillator is used to try to convert ventricular fibrillation (VF) or pulseless ventricular tachycardia (VT) to a perfusing rhythm. Respiratory and Cardiac Arrest: Adult comprehensive emergency cardiac care.
Fig. 6
Adult comprehensive emergency cardiac care.
The techniques used in basic 1- and 2-rescuer CPR are listed in Table 2: ; their mastery is best acquired by hands-on training such as that provided in the US under the auspices of the American Heart Association (1800-AHA-USA1) or similar organizations in other countries. Respiratory and Cardiac Arrest: Techniques of CPR for Health Care Professionals
Table 2
Techniques of CPR for Health Care Professionals
One-Rescuer CPR
2 breaths (1 sec each) after every 30 chest compressions at 100/min
2 breaths (1 sec) after every 30 chest compressions at 100/min*
Each breath about 500 mL (caution against hyperventila-tion)
Children (1 to 8)
2 breaths (1 sec duration) after every 30 chest compressions at 100/min
2 breaths (1 sec duration) after every 15 chest compressions at 100/min*
Smaller breaths than for adults (enough to make chest rise)
Infants (1 yr)<
2 breaths (1 sec duration) after every 30 chest compressions at 100/min
2 breaths (1 sec duration) after every 15 chest compressions at 100/min*
Only small puffs from rescuer's cheeks
*With an advanced airway in place, give 8 to 10 breaths/min without pause of chest compressions.
Airway and Breathing
Except in witnessed cardiac arrest when a defibrillator is available in 3 min, opening the airway is the first priority (see ).< Respiratory and Cardiac Arrest: Clearing and Opening the Upper Airway
Mouth-to-mouth (adults and children) or combined mouth-to-mouth-and-nose (infants) rescue breathing is begun. Cricoid pressure may be applied continuously by a 2nd rescuer until airway control is achieved by endotracheal intubation. Firm pressure on the rigid cartilaginous rings of the trachea occludes the esophagus, minimizing the chance of gastric inflation from ventilations and blocking the exit of gastric contents if regurgitation occurs; pressure must be much lighter in young children to avoid collapsing the trachea. If abdominal distention develops, the airway is rechecked for patency and the amount of air delivered during rescue breathing is reduced. Nasogastric intubation to relieve gastric distention is delayed until suction equipment is available because regurgitation with aspiration of gastric contents may occur during insertion. If marked gastric distention interferes with ventilation and cannot be corrected by the above methods, the patient is positioned on his side, the epigastrium compressed, and the airway cleared.
The trachea is intubated as described under Airway Establishment and Control (see ). However, defibrillation is not delayed to perform endotracheal intubation, and, if possible, chest compression continues uninterrupted during intubation. Respiratory and Cardiac Arrest: Airway Establishment and Control
Circulation
In an unresponsive patient whose collapse was unwitnessed, the rescuer should immediately begin external (closed chest) cardiac compression, alternating with rescue breathing. In witnessed cardiac arrest, defibrillation precedes chest compression, if available within 3 min.Chest compression:
Ideally, external cardiac compression produces a palpable pulse with each compression, although cardiac output is only 30 to 40% of normal. However, palpation of pulses during chest compression is difficult and often unreliable. End-tidal CO monitoring provides a better estimate of cardiac output during chest compression; patients with inadequate perfusion have little venous return to the lungs and hence a low end-tidal CO. Normal-sized, light-responsive pupils signal adequate brain circulation and oxygenation. Light-responsive but dilated pupils may indicate inadequate cerebral oxygenation although brain injury may not have occurred. However, persistently dilated, nonreactive pupils do not prove brain injury or death because high doses of cardioactive drugs, other drugs, or cataracts may modify pupil size and reaction. Restoration of spontaneous breathing or eye opening may indicate restoration of spontaneous circulation.22
Open-chest cardiac compression may be effective, but its use is restricted to patients after penetrating chest injuries, cardiac tamponade, and cardiac arrest in the operating room with the patient's chest already open. However, thoracotomy requires training and experience and is best performed only with these limited indications.
Laceration of the liver is the most serious (sometimes fatal) complication and is usually caused by compressing below the sternum. Rupture of the stomach is a rare complication (particularly if the stomach is distended with air). Delayed rupture of the spleen is very rare. A more frequent complication is regurgitation followed by aspiration of gastric contents, producing aspiration pneumonia that may be fatal.Complications of chest compression:
Costochondral separation and fractured ribs sometimes cannot be avoided for it is important to compress the chest deeply enough to produce sufficient blood flow. Fractures are quite rare in children because of the flexibility of the chest wall. Bone marrow emboli to the lungs have rarely been reported after external cardiac compression, but there is no clear evidence that they contribute to mortality. Lung injury is rare, but pneumothorax secondary to rib fracture can occur. Serious myocardial injury does not occur, with the possible exception of injury to a preexisting ventricular aneurysm. Concern for these injuries should not deter the rescuer from performing CPR.
ECG monitoring is established to identify the underlying cardiac rhythm. An IV line is started; 2 lines minimize the risk of losing IV access during CPR. Large-bore peripheral lines in the antecubital veins are preferred. In adults, a subclavian or internal jugular central line can be placed if a peripheral line cannot be established. Intraosseous and femoral lines (see ) are the preferred alternatives in children. Femoral vein catheters (preferably long catheters advanced centrally) are practical because CPR need not be interrupted and they have less potential for lethal complications, but they may have a lower rate of successful placement because no discrete femoral arterial pulsations are available to guide insertion.Monitor and IV: Approach to the Critically Ill Patient: Intraosseous Infusion
The type and volume of fluids or drugs given depend on the clinical circumstances. Usually, IV 0.9% saline is given slowly (sufficient only to keep an IV line open); vigorous volume replacement (crystalloid and colloid solutions, blood) is required only when arrest results from hypovolemia (see ). Shock and Fluid Resuscitation: Intravenous Fluid Resuscitation
D