salvation
Why am I here? Why am I here on earth? Am I another insignificant accident in nature's evolutionary chain? Is there a greater reason for my existence? Why am I here? Is there more to life than just getting an education, carving out a career, finding a partner in marriage, setting up a family, earning enough money for retirement, and then dying at a ripe old age? Most people live their entire lives without ever knowing the answers to these questions. They live through year after year with no idea why they exist. Everybody wants to be happy. And in the pursuit of that happiness, we try all ways and means to find it. Some look for happiness by acquiring possessions. However, as you probably know from your own observations, some of the richest people around are also some of the saddest. Money cannot buy genuine long-lasting happiness. Some look for happiness by seeking pleasure. If that were possible, then late night partying and indulgence in worldly vices would surely be the answer. But alas, they often leave behind a hollow and empty aftertaste in every pleasure seeker. Well, there are still others who look for happiness by gaining prestige and power. If that is the key, then some of the most famous international statesman and Hollywood movie stars ought to be the happiest people around. However, no one can hold on to prestige and power forever. They are not eternal; you cannot find genuine, long-lasting happiness in them. So why are you here? Can you really find true joy and happiness in life? The answer is "Yes"! And the key to true happiness lies in the understanding of your purposes in life. Why am I here? The Bible says that there is a God who loves you very much. Jeremiah 31:12 "The LORD has appeared of old to me saying: 'Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love;...'" Ephesians 2:4 "But God who is rich in mercy because of His great love with which He loved us,..." This God, who is a good God, created you to have a relationship with Him and to enjoy His blessings. "[Jesus says] I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it abundantly (to have life in all its fullness)." - [John 10:10] However, there is a problem. What is the problem? Man chose to rebel and ignore God's principles for living: * "Well, if it feels good, I will do it... I don't care what God has said!" * "This is my life and I will do what I like!" * "I don't need God, I only believe in myself!" The Bible calls this attitude sin. The fact is that all of us have sinned against God in our attitudes, words and deeds. Romans 3:23 "For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God..." 1 John 1:8 (TLB) "If we say that we have no sin, we are only fooling ourselves and refusing to accept the truth." We have all told lies, lost our tempers, acted proudly, hurt others with our words, and entertained unloving and immoral thoughts in our minds. All of us hav...
Show full text: 8,362 characters
The offline version lets you read the entire text on your phone even if you do not have a data connection. The text may be split into several parts because of size limits on some phones. You can download the files directly from your phone's browser or to your PC first and transfer them to your phone using USB cable or bluetooth.Read offline on your mobile phone
Go to m.wattpad.com on your phone's web browser, select "Read offline" at the bottom and enter the wattcode 76562. to download files to PC.Download on phone's browser
Download files to PC