Dates:January 24-February 16 Tucson, Arizona
Location:
Tucson is a worldwide network of people and cultures probably like no other gathering of folks with similar interests anywhere.
Large numbers of people from every continent except Antarctica and nearly every country converge on this city to talk, gawk, share information, make contact, establish networks and see what everyone else in the world of rocks, stones, jewelry, and things related are doing.
Beyond the actual products and supplies of the jewelry trade Tucson is the place to experience the new in terms of tools, equipment and techniques. Many tool suppliers set up at the Electric Park complex of tents which, like many shows around the city, are probably several acres. You can find nearly every type of diamond grinder or cutter with some surprisingly good prices. But there are suppliers of tools and supplies in many other sites as well. Some shows are very specialized; others are very diverse.
For 2009, according to the Tucson trade bureau, there will be over 40 howsa term used when describing sites set up specifically for multiple vendors. Wholesale only shows are shown on the map below with yellow placemarks. Clicking on any placemark below will give you more information and show a link to that show.
View Larger Map
How to Register for the Shows:
Although most people think of Tucson as a single event, it's actually made up of many different gem, jewelry, bead, mineral, and fossil shows, and each show is organized by a different company. While the can help you plan for the trip, we do not handle registration for either exhibitors or buyers.Jewelry Show Guide
Please contact show promoters individually.TO EXHIBIT:
Most of the shows in Tucson are open to the public and sell to both wholesale and retail buyers. However, some shows are only open to wholesale buyers and require credentials in order to enter. Registration for these shows can usually be done before or at the shows, but needs to be done separately with each show promoter. The following shows require wholesale buyer credentials to enter: American Gem Trade Association; Gem & Lapidary Dealers Association; GJX Gem & Jewelry Show; Worldwide Gem & Jewelry Show, Gem & Lapidary Wholesalers at the Holiday Inn/Holidome, the Rodeway Inn (Quality Inn), and at the Gem Mall; AKS Gem Shows at the Howard Johnson; the Jewelry, Gem & Mineral Exposition at Michigan Street and Simpson Street; J.O.G.S. International Exhibits; The Madagascar Minerals Gem Show; the Tucson Southwest Jewelry, Gem, and Bead Show; and the 1820 Oracle Wholesale Show. These show promoters require one or more of the following buyer credentials upon entering: resale license, tax certificate, JBT number, business card, and/or photo I.D.FOR BUYER REGISTRATION:
 
Shows that are open to the public and do not require buyer credentials are noted on the map above with red markers. (Click on any marker to get more information.)
If you are a show promoter and would like to provide us with more specific information on how to register for your show, . please contact the Editorial Department
 