The Truth about Heaven & Eternity
Ice & Demy:
Deals with all the hard to answer questions. Excellent.
$ 3.00
 
 Was Christ God?
At last an easy to understand book on John 1:1-18. It ends all the arguments and speculations. Truly, "the Word was God".
Spiros Zopdhiates, Th.D.
US $13.00 -- Cdn. $ 18.00includes gst
WHO Is the Adventist Jesus?
This is not a casual read, but rather a 378-page reference book with official quotes for the purposes of studying the chronological changes made within Seventh-day Adventism concerning the person of Jesus Christ. In all these changes, they never removed the idea that Jesus Christ is some type of archangel.
This is not an attack on those who are Seventh-day Adventists, but rather it is an examination of what the Seventh-day Adventist Church has taught from its inception to our present day. This book is designed for people who desire to seriously delve into the most critical difference between mainline Christianity and Seventh-day Adventism.
While the Seventh-day Adventist Church is considered to be just another denomination in most evangelical circles, this subject of the identity of Jesus Christ must be examined with intense scrutiny as the most critical matter of any religious faith. Let's investigate!
Please go to Xulon Press' online bookstore at:
http://www.xulonpress.com/bookstore/titles/1597813281.htm and place your order. Thank you for your support in helping the Evangelical and Adventist communities become aware of this pivotal issue! 
Please contact me with your comments. cssolution@shaw.ca
 
Sabbath In Christ (Crisis)
D. Ratzlaff.
 An in-depth examination from an Old and New Testament perspective showing that Sabbath keeping is not a requirement for salvation.
 
The Cultic Doctrine Of Seventh-day AdventistsDale Ratzlaff,
 
Another excellent work by a fourth generation former Seventh-day Adventist, who writes from extensive inside knowledge. If you have had doubts about the cultic side of the SDA's, this one is for you.
 
 
 Exposing Seventh-day Adventism
Seventh-day Adventism entices members into it using trickery and half-truths. They tell the unenlightened public one thing and insiders yet another.
Dr. Kelly explains how he was tricked into joining. He then refutes the theological fiasco called the Investigative Judgment which created the sect. Much of the book looks at the Sabbath with fresh insight. The final part reveals the mysterious realms of Sheol and Hades in order to expose SDA error about the soul.
Russell Kelly is also the author of Should the Church Teach Tithing? A Theologian's Conclusions about a Taboo Doctrinea best seller on Amazon.com under "Tithing" since 2001.
About the Author
A former SDA pastor, Russell E. Kelly has served churches in Georgia, North Dakota and South Carolina. In 2000 he received a Ph. D. at Covington Theological Seminary in Ft. Oglethorpe, Georgia. Russ lives in Acworth, Georgia and enjoys singing concerts of gospel, Elvis, Marty Robbins and Sinatra.
 
"White Out" by Dirk Anderson
2001-- Finally, a fully documented book that exposes the secrets surrounding the disappearance of Mrs. White's errant writings! Have you ever wondered why the following have strangely vanished from her writings...
a.. Her failed predictions
b.. Her visions which turned out to be wrong
c.. Health messages that were proven wrong by science
d.. Writings stolen from other authors
e.. And a myriad of other blunders and mistakes
US $10.00 -- Cdn. $ 12.00includes gst
From an Adventist Pastor to a
Pastor in a Christian Church!
Discovering the New Covenant
In many ways it it takes an Adventist to know an Adventist's questions and struggles, that is the reason more than empathizes, it enpowers.Discovering the New Covenant: Why I am no longer a Seventh-day Adventist
Greg's story will encourage thousands of other truth-seekers around the world to step out in faith and follow our Savior no matter what the cost.
Order direct from the author and visit his web for more details.
Mark Martin.SDA's And The Writings Of E.G. White
Contains excellent resource materials and some little known facts.
$ 4.00