Crowne Plaza Liverpool John Lennon Airport Hotel
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: , navigation search
The hotel from the front. The replica de Havilland Dragon Rapide can be seen, as can the newly added bedroom wings.
The hotel from the former airside. The preserved Jetstream can be seen, as can the the famous terraces.
The , formerly the , is an airport hotel near to , serving the city of . Today a member of the chain owned by the , the hotel building has an unusual history.Crowne Plaza Liverpool John Lennon Airport HotelMarriott Liverpool South Hotel Liverpool John Lennon Airport English Liverpool Crowne Plaza InterContinental Hotels Group Grade II listed art deco [1]
The building was constructed in the 1930s, as the terminal building for the airport, then known as Speke Aerodrome. It is still sometimes seen on repeats of early television news footage, with its terraces packed with fans waiting to greet the on their return from tour. The terminal building was replaced with a more modern building on a different location in 1986, and was left derelict for over a decade. However it has since been renovated and adapted to become a hotel, opening for business in 2001. The adaption involved adding two new bedroom wings on the frontage of the hotel, but the aspect has been preserved intact. Beatles airside [2]
The former of the terminal is also listed and retained in its original condition, although it is no longer connected to the airport or subject to airside access control. It is the home of several aircraft, including prototype G-JMAC and G-ANCF, preserved by the Jetstream Club. Additionally, the club looks after a replica that is displayed in front of the hotel entrance. apron BAe Jetstream 41 Bristol Britannia de Havilland Dragon Rapide [2] [3]
The two art deco style that flank the terminal and apron have also been converted for new uses. One is now a , whilst the other has been adapted as the headquarters of the , and is now known as Skyways House. hangars David Lloyd leisure centre Shop Direct Group [2] [4]