Comandante Ferraz Brazilian Antarctic Base
A Brazilian , Therezinha de Castro, came up with the concept of a South American quadrant of Antarctica: the notion of (frontage). Under this concept, in the South American sector of Antarctica ( to ) all non-South American nations would be required to remove their bases. The one-quarter piece of Antarctica as defined above would come under the control (although not necessarily sovereignty) of those six South American countries which had open to the South Pole (i.e. north-south lines which did not touch or include any other nation s South American territory). This approach would greatly diminish the sectors presently claimed by Argentina and Chile, would eliminate the British sector, and would give small, but significant, sectors to , and (thanks to the ). Brazil would have the largest sector. Frontage concept was never an official Brazilian government position, but it was widely accepted by Brazilian geopoliticians and others with an interest in Antarctica. As might be expected, it was strongly opposed by British, Argentine and Chilean geopoliticians, and welcomed by those in Uruguay, Peru and Ecuador. geostrategist defronta o Greenwich 0 degree meridian 90 degrees west meridians Uruguay Peru Ecuador Galapagos Islands
[] edit Administration
Map showing the location of Brazilian Antarctica.
The administration of Brazil's Antarctic policy and interests are shared by various government organizations. Several Federal universities and institutes also participate in the Antarctic research program. As is the case with Argentina and Chile, the military (especially the and the ) play a major role in Brazil's Antarctic program. Air Force Navy
[] edit Comiss o Interministerial para os Recursos do Mar (CIRM)
National agency responsible for the elaboration and implementation of the Brazilian Antarctic Programme, Programa Ant rtico Brasileiro (PROANTAR), and for maintaining the all-year station Comandante Ferraz. The commission is under the direct command of the Brazilian Navy. [2]
[] edit Brazilian National Committee on Antarctic Research (CONAPA)
National Member of . This committee is responsible for promoting the liaison between the Brazilian Antarctic Programme and international Antarctic research, co-ordinated by SCAR, and of following the activities and achievements of the research undertaken by other national Antarctic programmes. CONAPA is also an advisory body to other Brazilian organisms of the Brazilian Antarctic System, concerning scientific Antarctic politics. The committee is under the administration of the Ministry of Science and Technology of Brazil. SCAR [3]
[] edit National Commission on Antarctic Matters (CONANTAR)
National advisory board to the in charge of the formulation and implementation of the National Policy for Antarctic Affairs (Politica Nacional para Assuntos Antarticos - POLANTAR). The commission is directly linked to the and the . President of Brazil Ministry of External Relations Presidency [4]
[] edit Brazilian Antarctica Parliamentary Committee
Permanent joint committee responsible for overseeing Brazil's Antarctic Programme and interests, including funding, and on-going operations. The committee has 175 members (54 Senators and 121 Deputies) and is chaired by a President. congressional [5]