What causes cervical cancer?
A1.
Cervical cancer is caused by persistent infection with a common and contagious virus, , which is transmitted through sexual contact and skin to skin contact. Cervical cancer begins in the cervix and becomes gradually more invasive if left untreated. human papillomavirus (HPV)
Q2.
What is HPV?
A2.
HPV is the abbreviation for human papillomavirus, a common and contagious virus. There are more than 100 types of HPV; more than 30 of which are spread through sexual contact. These can be further divided into oncogenic and non-oncogenic types. There are at least 15 oncogenic types of HPV that can lead to cervical cancer. Types 16, 18, 45 and 31 are collectively responsible for 80 percent of cervical cancers globally.
Q3.
What are the symptoms of HPV?
A3.
There are typically no symptoms of HPV, which means that most people who are infected do not know they are. However, some women experience precancerous changes in the cervix, detected by the Pap smear, and some get genital warts.
Q4.
How common is HPV infection and does it always cause cancer?
A4.
HPV is very common, but cervical cancer is not. It is estimated that at least 80 percent of women will acquire a genital HPV infection by the time they reach the age of 50. Both younger and older women are at risk of cervical cancer because of infection with oncogenic HPV. The body’s defense mechanisms clear most HPV infections without any risk of the infection progressing to cancer. But some women infected with oncogenic HPV types develop long-term, persistent infections. These women are more likely to develop progressive, high-grade, precancerous lesions. If these are not detected by screening and treated, cervical cancer may develop.
Q5.
Do condoms prevent against HPV infection?
A5.
Condoms are up to 70 percent effective in preventing HPV infection. They do not protect completely against the infection with the virus because infection does not depend on penetrative sex; it occurs from skin-to-skin contact of the genital area. Reducing this skin-to-skin contact may reduce the risk of infection.
Q6.
If a woman is in a long-term, monogamous relationship, is she still at risk of HPV infection?
A6.
Sexually active women are at risk of contracting HPV. HPV is a common infection and is usually transmitted through sexual activity. The risk of HPV infection can increase based on the total lifetime relationships that the woman and her partner have had prior to their current relationship. Therefore, monogamy does not necessarily remove the risk of HPV infection.
Q7.
How common is cervical cancer?
A7.
According to the American Cancer Society, approximately 11,150 women will develop cervical cancer in the United States in 2007, and nearly 3,700 will die from it. Worldwide, an estimated 270,000 women die each year because of cervical cancer. In the United States, after breast cancer, cervical cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women ages 20-39.
Q8.
Who is affected by cervical cancer?
A8.
Cervical cancer affects women of different ages and backgrounds across the world. In the United States, it disproportionately affects women of certain populations and in certain geographic regions (e.g., African-American women in the South, Hispanic women along the Texas-Mexico border, white women in Appalachia, American Indians of the Northern Plains, Vietnamese-American women and Alaska Natives).
Q9.
At what age are women most likely to develop cervical cancer?
A9.
A woman can be infected with HPV at a young age but not develop cervical cancer for many years because it generally takes awhile for the disease to progress. The highest burden of diagnosis of cervical cancer is among women aged 35 to 44. Cervical cancer is extremely rare in women under the age of 20.
Q10.
What is the risk of dying from cervical cancer?
A10.
Approximately 2.6 out of every 100,000 women will die of cervical cancer each year. The death rates for white women are 2.4 out of 100,000, whereas the death rates for black women are 5.0 out of 100,000 women, and the death rates for Hispanic women are 3.4 out of 100,000 women.
Q11.
What is the impact of a diagnosis of cervical cancer?
A11.
A diagnosis of cervical cancer and the need for treatment can have a major impact on a woman’s quality of life, resulting in emotional, sexual, reproductive and relationship problems, as well as stress and anxiety. Even being told that a Pap test is positive for abnormal cells, or that an HPV test is positive can result in raised anxiety and stress.
Q12.
What are the treatment options for cervical cancer?
A12.
There are several different treatment options for patients with cervical cancer. The most common are surgery, and radiation, and in some cases the use of two or more methods works best. These treatment options all may have profound and lasting physical effects – including early menopause and loss of fertility. chemotherapy
Translating medical “jargon”
A cancer that begins in glandular tissue.
Adjuvant
A substance that, when used in combination with antigens in vaccines, increases or enhances the body immune response to a vaccine. The use of adjuvants in vaccines, conventionally formulated only with aluminum salt, is very common.
Antibody
A protein found in the blood that is produced by specific immune system cells (B cells and plasma cells) in response to an invading bacteria or virus. Antibodies bind to these organisms and help to destroy and eliminate them.
Antigens
Any foreign substance capable of inducing a specific immune response under appropriate conditions.
Biopsy
The surgical removal of a small tissue sample to help a healthcare professional diagnose a suspected lesion.
Cervical screening
The process of collecting cells from a woman’s cervix. Once collected, cells are analyzed for abnormalities.
Chemotherapy
The use of drugs to kill or reduce the size of cancer cells.
Colposcope
A lighted magnifying instrument used to examine the cervix and vagina.
Colposcopy
A procedure that uses a colposcope, which provides an illuminated, magnified view of the cervix, the tissue of the vagina and vulva, and can help determine the cause of abnormalities found in Pap tests.
Cryotherapy
A procedure that involves the freezing and destruction of abnormal cervical tissue with the use of an extremely cold probe.
Dysplasia / dysplasias
Abnormal growth of cells.
Epithelium
The covering of internal or external surfaces of the body, including the surface lining of organs and glands.
False negative
A test result reported as normal when it is not. In the context of cervical cancer, a false negative result is one where the Pap test is reported as normal, but abnormal cells were present on the cervix.
False positive
A test result that reports an abnormal outcome when a disease is not present.
HPV
Known as HPV, human papillomavirus is a common and contagious virus usually transmitted through sexual contact. Different types of the virus can cause cancer or warts (benign).
HPV test
A test that is sometimes provided in addition to a Pap test that can detect oncogenic types of HPV by checking for the DNA of the virus. Similar to a Pap test, an HPV test is performed on a sample of cells collected from the cervix.
Hysterectomy
An operation to surgically remove the uterus and, often, the cervix. If cervical cancer has spread beyond the cervix and uterus, a hysterectomy also may involve the removal of surrounding tissues and organs (radical hysterectomy).
Lesion
A visible area of abnormal tissue that may be cancerous, precancerous (likely to become cancer) or benign (non-cancerous).
Loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP)
A type of surgery used for early cervical cancer that uses a thin excision procedure electric wire loop to remove abnormal cells from the cervix.
Low-risk HPV
Types of HPV that do not lead to cervical cancer, but may cause warts and a small percentage of mild changes, which are usually harmless, in a woman’s cervix.
Oncogenic
Cancer-causing.
Pap test
Also known as a “Pap smear,” this process detects the presence of abnormal cervical cells. It is named after the pathologist George Papanicolaou, M.D., who developed the technique.
Persistent infection
An infection that does not go away. Persistent oncogenic HPV infection of the cervix can lead to cervical cancer.
Squamous cell carcinoma
A type of cancer that begins in non-glandular cells (e.g., skin).
Tumor
An abnormal mass of tissue that is the result of cells growing and dividing in an uncontrolled manner. Tumors may be benign (non-cancerous) or malignant (cancerous).
Ultrasound
An imaging method used to identify internal organs and tissues. High-energy sound waves (ultrasound) are bounced off the internal organs and tissues, and an image is created from their echoes.
Vaccination
A technique used to produce an immune response that results in protection against a specific disease.
GlaxoSmithKline has provided funding and other support for the Partnership to End Cervical Cancer and members of the Partnership.
This site is intended for US residents only. © 1997-2009 GlaxoSmithKline. All Rights Reserved. | | |