Recipe from Chef Miller:   Ibarra Chocolate Cake
Mark Miller belongs in Washington, DC, in the sense that the city is the nation's capital and Mark Miller is a quintessentially American culinary leader. It is also fitting that Miller opened his Red Sage restaurant as a benefit for the National Museum of the American Indian at the Smithsonian Institution. A former student of anthropology at Berkeley and Oxford, Miller considers cooking to be a practical application of the study of culture, and he strives to recreate in food what he admires in primitive art: "intensity of forms and colors." The word "intense" has been on the lips of nearly every critic who has reviewed Red Sage; writers marvel at
 
the two rings of fire chandeliers, the cumulus clouds suspended from the ceilings and the strobe light-created effect of lightning. The food from the kitchen of Mark Miller, master of chilies, also has created a stir, especially signature dishes like Lobster Tamales with Three Chilies, Wood Pigeon and Foie Gras Tamal, and Seared Spicy Tuna with Mole Amarillo.
Miller, the student of culture, observes that "the world looks at America, and it thinks about the West." Speaking in the words of one excited to be a part of the historical process of food evolution, Miller notes that while the West has a glorious past, "it's still in the process of becoming. It's not about looking back. It's about bringing it forward." Miller has contributed to the knowledge of Western cuisine through the publication of his best-selling books, all from Ten Speed Press: Coyote Cafe in 1989, The Great Chile Book — accompanied by the popular Great Chile posters — in 1991, and, more recently, The Salsa Book.
Miller once approached his cooking as a pragmatic endeavor, a means of relieving stress after his studies. When Alice Waters, one of the founders of New American cuisine, asked him in 1976 to cook temporarily at Chez Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., Miller discovered his life's calling, and stayed until 1979. He then opened the Fourth Street Grill in Berkeley, which catapulted him to culinary fame (and where he was first featured on a Great Chefs program, Great Chefs of San Francisco). Miller sold his interest in Fourth Street to launch, in 1987, the much-imitated Coyote Cafe in Santa Fe — where he was featured on Great Chefs of the West.
Coyote Cafe has received overwhelming critical acclaim; honors include recognition by Nation's Restaurant News as one of the best restaurants in the country and nomination by the James Beard Foundation as Best Southwestern Restaurant. Now there's the acclaimed Red Sage — named "Restaurant of the Year" by Esquire in 1992 — in Washington, a Coyote Cafe in Las Vegas, and more books — plus another feature on Great Chefs of the East. In a special edition of Life magazine, Miller was once named one of the most influential chefs of the decade. By now, Mark Miller must surely be one of the most influential American chefs of the past century.
 
| |    | |    | |    | |    | |    | | Kitchenware Kitchenware Sale Gourmet Food Gourmet Gift Baskets Wine Recipes & Cooking Books
 
We take the protection and proper use of your personal information seriously. We do not share customer information outside of our company unless it is necessary to provide you with our products or services, or if we are legally required to do so. Your name, address, email or phone number will not be sold, rented or given to any other company. All products offered have a convenient, Secure Online Ordering System. For Information on Pampered Chefs you can E-mail us atGourmet Foodplaza Privacy Policy