Skull Tattoos - An Explanation
Skull Tattoos
Do skull tattoos mean danger, darkness and death? Not always! Skull tattoos have developed a reputation as the insignia for secret societies, gangs, or SS tattoos, but that is often not the case, reports tattoolovers.com. Images of skulls, and skull tattoos specifically, represent a wild variety of meanings in different cultures.
For example, a skull is the symbol for several famous Saints including St. Francis. In addition, the Mexican Day of the Dead is represented with skulls and skeletons, often engaged in very life-like (and sometimes humorous) pursuits. The Day of the Dead is a holiday in which the living celebrate the lives of those who have died, occupying themselves by doing the things their loved ones used to like to do during life.
Though skull tattoos remind us that death is our constant companion, they are also a powerful reaffirmation of life.
Tuesday  Feb 14, 2006
Joker Tattoos - An Explanation
Our modern deck of playing cards is based in part on the ancient game of Tarot. The Tarot is a deck of many more cards than the standard poker deck contains today; including twenty-one cards called the Major Arcana.
The Major Arcana are the cards from the Tarot such as the Hanged Man, the Tower, the Moon, and the Day of Judgement (among others) that represent the powerful forces at work in the world.
The Joker is the only remainder of the original Major Arcana from the Tarot deck to survive into our modern playing card deck. Originally called the Fool, the Joker represents eccentricity, unexpected events and possibly madness. The Fool (and the Joker) has also been linked to a sort of innocent mysticism, as well. In the Christian interpretation of the Tarot, the Hanged Man is a representation of Jesus on the cross, but the Fool represents the innocence of Jesus and his teachings during his life.
Joker tattoos often refer to the fact that the Joker has a unique role in a deck of cards with the option to play or not, and never according to the standard rules. A Joker tattoo can also mean that the wearer is a trickster or joker, as well, and that things are not always what they seem&
Tuesday  Feb 14, 2006
Tattoos Emerge in the US Army
Cory Davidson, from Elwood, Indiana wanted to join the Army. He visited a recruiter who told him that his neck Kanji, meaning Brothers would make him ineligible for recruitment. He got laser surgery to have the tattoo removed, but a shadow remained. Though he got the okay from five different officers to ship out from Indiana, when he arrived at Oklahomas Fort Sill, he was rejected by officers who said his tattoo remained a violation.
Historically, the US Army does not allow recruits to have any tattoos that are visible above their uniform. What this means specifically, is that no neck or hand tattoo is allowed. Just days ago however, something shifted.
Until the end of December of 2005, the Army maintained its judgment on Cory Davidson. However, a new nationwide policy decision has changed all of that. Now, the Army publicly permits neck tattoos on anyone. Their official policy now reads:
"All tattoos that are on the neck that are not vulgar, profane, indecent, racist or extremist are authorized as long as it does not extremely degrade military appearance [are permitted]"
Wednesday  Feb 08, 2006
Top Ten Tattoos
What are the Top Ten most popular tattoos in America? The list changes from week to week, but updates this list regularly. www.vanishingtattoo.com
The results are in:
10.- For the past few years the butterfly has been by far the most popular specific tattoo design request. Butterfly designs are an overwhelmingly feminine tattoo choice.Butterfly
9. - The Tiger is a potent symbol across Asia in many cultures and has long been a fixture in indigenous tattooing in India, Burma, Thailand, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, China and Japan. Tigers are associated with power, ferocity, passion and sensuality, beauty and speed, cruelty and wrath.Tiger
9. - The Moon is said to represent the feeling nature of the individual. It is used to characterize the inner child within us, as well as the past and how we have been as individuals rather than how we are now. (A tie for #9 with tiger)Moon
8. - Flame tattoo designs are a popular design element in many tattoo genres and they make their first appearance this year in the Top Ten. Flames can be found in Old and New School tattooing and fire and flames are important design motifs in Japanese tattooing.Flames
7. - Cross tattoo designs encompass many different styles, from simple crosses, to much more elaborate Celtic crosses and Maltese crosses.Cross
6. - As a tattoo design and symbol, a Sun represents fertility, vitality, passion, courage and eternally renewed youth, light and knowledge.Sun
6. - As a tattoo design they can be symbols of youthful innocence and a desire to retain a child-like imagination, wonder and awe. As a tattoo design, they are a potent symbol of our youth. (In a tie for #6 with Sun)Fairy/Fairies
5. - Wings as a tattoo design can often have inspirational or spiritual symbolism. They also have an element of the magical about them.Wings
4. - A tattoo design with strong religious connotations that speaks of faith and a design often used in Memorial tattoos.Angel/Angels
3. - The Phoenix is a traditional design in Japanese and Chinese myth, symbolic of rebirth and metamorphosis, popular with both men and women.Phoenix
2. - Stars are often symbols of guidance, a reference to their use in navigation. The Nautical Star is a star design that has taken off in popularity on it's own, heavily featured in Old School and Nautical Tattooing. The Nautical Star is popular with both men and women and interestingly, several widely diverse sub-culture groups have seized upon the Nautical Star as a symbol of inclusion, from sailors and marines to lesbians.Star/Stars
1. - Tribal tattoo design searches were by far the most popular this week. A perennial favorite, tribal tattoos are a widely popular tattoo genre with many influences and sub-genres. Bold graphic designs done predominately in blacks and grays, heavily influenced by traditional tattooing in Southeast Asia and the South Pacific.Tribal
Wednesday  Feb 08, 2006
Every BODY Has A Story - "The Ties that Bind"
On my mothers 60th birthday, she had an unusual request. She asked my sister and me if we would like to get tattooed with her. We were Very surprised, but happy to do this together. We choose a Celtic symbol- the top part of the symbol from the triangle up means family. My sister, my mother and I chose our own pieces for the bottom of the symbol that we felt reflected our individual personalities. My part of the symbol represents Healer because I am a doctor. My mother got her tattoo over her breast, and my sister got hers on the back of her neck.
Monday  Feb 06, 2006
Every BODY Has A Story - "Tattooed Valentines"
"During the first year of our marriage we celebrated often- actually we still do! But one memorable time was when we went to Hawaii. Everything was so beautiful. Even when you looked at the ground it was gorgeous- tiny flowers covered every surface of the island. We wanted to get a tattoo to remember our experience there, and decided to get these matching flowers on our feet so we would always remember the beauty of our time there. "