"Discover How to Become a Radio DJ, Talk Show Host, or Sports Broadcaster"
Without a clear-cut strategy for breaking into radio broadcasting - you're just one of the crowd
Learning how to become a radio Dj, talk show host, or sports broadcaster at any level is not easily navigated on your own.
You'll need much more than luck.
It takes hard work, dedication, determination - and .access
Access to the principal decision makers. Access to influential broadcasters - producers and directors - and top executives. Only then, will you be able to increase your chances for success.
Resumes and demo tapes ALONE don't work anymore. Whether your goal is to become a local DJ, nationally known talk show host, or make it to the sidelines of the Super Bowl - - an insiders advantage...you need an advantage
"...The Broadcasters Mentoring Group provides you access to broadcasting insiders you'll need to succeed - starting on day one"
You certainly can attempt to go it alone - a lot of people try, and meet with mixed results.
But you don't have to go it alone anymore.
There's a far more effective way available to maximize the radio broadcasting opportunities that surround you this very minute.
It is to your advantage to seek out those who have gone before you in radio broadcasting and take advantage of their knowledge, contacts, and experience, to work on your behalf.
BMG has purposefully chosen the mentor-apprentice model for developing your broadcasting skills. That reason is simple - it works best, in more ways than one.
Broadcast Mentoring provides you two critical components that traditional broadcasting schools and university communications programs typically fail to provide-
Access to influential broadcast industry contacts
Advantages that come from having industry contacts who know you
Your radio station apprenticeship allows you to access another broadcasters experience, knowledge, and contacts. From that, you gain advantages few others rarely experience.
In truth, traditional broadcasting schools or university programs don't intend to shortchange you. They're just not set up to provide you access to real broadcasters, real contacts, real equipment...in a real broadcasting environment.
No Need to Relocate or Quit Your Job
Regardless of where you live, BMG has a 'broadcasting school' near you - provided there's a radio station nearby. That's because your lassroom' is actually inside a state-of-the-art radio station. Your rofessor' is a working radio dj, talk show host, or sports broadcaster - employed by the radio station or local team ofyour choosing.
No boring classroom lectures, or training on outdated and useless equipment. No training in classrooms far removed from where real radio broadcasting is conducted.
Instead, you're being trained by the best (they're working broadcasters and sportscasters, after all) - around the same equipment you'll need to master - and in the same environment you'll soon be likely working.
A brief overview of your BMG broadcasting training:
You choose the format, station and/or team to train with
You determine your training days and times
You decide whether to train to become a radio DJ, talk show host, or sports broadcaster
No experience required
Best of all, - just you - receiving a hands-on, one-on-one customized training from your broadcasting mentor/instructor.you'll be in a class of one
How Your Broadcaster Training Works? It's Easy as 1 - 2 - 3
The process involved in pursuing your broadcaster training through BMG is fairly straightforward. Your training is customized with a quality mentor. Your training days and times are determined by you. times when you're available. You'll even choose the radio station in which you'll train.
To get started, you'll want to:
Identify what your goals for broadcasting are. Do you want to become a radio dj, talk show host, newscaster or sports broadcaster? After all, if you don't know what your eventual destination looks like, how will you know if you've ever arrived?
Closely examine the two primary training options below, and decide which is the best fit for your learning needs, schedule, and budget. A brief overview of those two training options are;
Inexperienced broadcasters or sportscasters looking to quickly break into the business and gain an advantage from the very beginning typically become "Ultra Insiders".
is a customized served in a local radio station of your choosing.The "Ultra Insider" Training program six-month apprenticeship training program broadcasting school
The is a customizedupreme InsiderTraining Programthree-month apprenticeship training program broadcasting school in a local radio station of your choosing - at nearly half the cost.
Perfect for those who are looking to re-enter broadcasting, or those on a limited budget, you'll receive professional and personalized instruction from your mentor through BMG's upreme InsiderTraining Program
When you've decided which training program best meets your needs, you'll to set up your no obligation, pre-screening interview. Here, you'll have any additional questions answered before we mutually decide if we're a good fit for each other. contact BMG
BMG understands that our hands-on, one-on-one approach to learning is not for everyone, however. Some people prefer a classroom and lecture environment. If that describes you, you may want to look into a regular brick and mortar broadcasting school or college program within your community (if you're near a large city).
People are often skeptical when it comes to finding things on the Internet. There seems to be a certain, "if it seems too good to be true, it probably is" mentality. That's what everyone around me was saying when I first brought up training with your company. Maybe I'm a little naive but it worked out in my favor this time. What floored me right from the start is that I explained what I wanted and you basically handed it to me on a silver platter, down to the exact station and the exact show. My experience has been amazing so far and I only expect for things to get better. The best thing about your program is the connections it makes possible within the industry. I have met so many people at the radio station and all of them are behind me. I'm on my way to getting a job at the station and the ever-important "foot in the door" and I'm not even to Segment 3 yet!
I love the real radio experience. I love hearing things on-air that I've worked on in production. I can't imagine being stuck in a classroom and not having an experience as amazing as the one I've had so far.
Sincerely, Jessica Mueller