Sorry, no Green Bay Packers tickets are available at this time.
Sign up for a Green Bay Packers ticket alert below to be the first to know when we have Green Bay Packers tickets in our inventory. The Ticket Alert will notify you when Green Bay Packers tickets become available. Just follow the instructions you receive by email!
Sign up for a Green Bay Packers Ticket Alert!
Enter Your Email
Relax! We will send your Green Bay Packers Ticket Alert email immediately once the Green Bay Packers tickets you're looking for become available, so you'll be the first to know!
* Once subscribed, you can unsubscribe from Ticket Alerts at any time.
2009 Green Bay Packers Games
If you would like to attend a Green Bay Packers game live in person, CoastToCoastTickets.com is your source. CoastToCoastTickets.com provides schedules and information for Green Bay Packers. Whether you just want tickets that will get you into the game or you prefer premium seats, we make it easy to buy Green Bay Packers tickets online or by phone. While we are proud to offer our customers an industry-leading selection of Green Bay Packers tickets at competitive prices, we are equally committed to providing extensive Green Bay Packers information. Our site includes , Green Bay Packers schedules, , Lambeau Field directions, and Green Bay Packers background and history.
Green Bay Packers Playoff Tickets Lambeau Field seating charts
Green Bay Packers History
There were few dry eyes among Packer Backers this offseason, as legendary QB Brett Favre announced his retirement after one last overachieving season. While 2007 was full of positive surprises in Green Bay, 2008 leaves a lot of questions. None are larger than whether new QB Aaron Rodgers will be able to fill the shoes of Favre. We expect Ryan Grant to remain a major contributor to the offense, complementing a group of strong receivers. While nothing can replace the magic of #4 at Lambeau, this Packers team looks to be surprisingly good and will provide some new highlights to the Green Bay faithful.
Some Green Bay Packers history: The Packers predate the NFL. The team was founded in Green Bay on August 11, 1919, by two young players, George Calhoun and Curly Lambeau. The Indian Packing Plant, Lambeau's employer, donated uniforms and the use of an athletic field. During the team's first season in 1920, players earned their salaries by passing hats among spectators.
Availability & Shipping
Coast to Coast Tickets provides the most comprehensive inventory of Green Bay Packers tickets available on the secondary market.
If the Green Bay Packers tickets you are looking for are not available, please check back as our inventory is constantly updated. Orders for Green Bay Packers tickets that are no longer available will be cancelled or substituted at the customer's discretion. All Green Bay Packers tickets are shipped via Federal Express.
Green Bay Packers tickets may be sold for more than the price listed on the ticket. Unless specifically stated, we are not affiliated with any official Green Bay Packers website, any Green Bay Packers box office or any Green Bay Packers fan clubs, partners, or sponsors.Please Note:
Sell NFL Tickets
More Green Bay Packers Information
In 1921 Lambeau's Packers joined the new American Professional Football Association, which soon became the NFL. Lambeau played until 1927, becoming an early master of the forward pass. Green Bay won three consecutive league titles from 1929 through 1931, and three more crowns in 1936, 1939, and 1944.
After Lambeau left the team in 1949, the franchise declined. During the 1960s, however, under head coach Vince Lombardi the Packers won five league crowns from 1961 to 1967. Star-studded lineups featuring quarterback Bart Starr, halfback-kicker Paul Hornung, offensive lineman Forrest Gregg, linebacker Ray Nitschke, and running back Jim Taylor captured five league championships in seven seasons' record unmatched in NFL history. Lombardi's Packers won the first two Super Bowls, humbling two American Football League champion teams: the Packers defeated the Kansas City Chiefs 35-10 in the 1967 Super Bowl, and a year later they beat the Oakland Raiders 33-14.