This question type measures your ability to:
recognize faults in usage
recognize effective sentences that follow the conventions of standard written English
Directions
The following sentences test your ability to recognize grammar and usage errors. Each sentence contains either a single error or no error at all. No sentence contains more than one error. The error, if there is one, is underlined and lettered. If the sentence contains an error, select the one underlined part that must be changed to make the sentence correct. If the sentence is correct, select choice E. In choosing answers, follow the requirements of standard written English.
The and accepted the resolution by the neutral states. other delegates A him B immediately C
drafted D No error E
Answering Identifying Sentence Errors Questions
Ask yourself if any of the underlined words and phrases in the sentence contains a grammar or usage error. Follow the two outlined steps in answering each Identifying Sentence Errors question.
Read the entire sentence carefully but quickly, paying attention to underlined choices (A) through (D).Step 1:
In the example above, "The other delegates and him" are the people who "immediately accepted the resolution," and the phrase "drafted by the neutral states" describes "the resolution." Check each underlined word or phrase for correctness.
The phrase "The other" correctly modifies the word "delegates."
The pronoun "him" is in the wrong case. (One would not say "him immediately accepted.") "Him" is an error, but go on to check the other choices, especially if you are not sure.
The word "immediately," which modifies the verb "accepted," is correct.
The phrase "drafted by" correctly expresses the action of the "neutral states."
Select the underlined word or phrase that needs to be changed to make the sentence correct.Step 2:
Mark (E) if you believe that the sentence is correct as written. Mark (B) on your answer sheet because the underlined word "him" must be changed to "he" to make the sentence correct.No error
Correct answer: (B)