[] edit History
[] edit Source of the name
The name "Northern Virginia" does not seem to have been used in the early history of the area. According to Johnston, some early documents and land grants refer to the "Northern Neck of Virginia", and they describe an area which began on the east at the western shore of the and includes a territory that extended west, including all the land between the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers, with a western boundary called the Fairfax line. The Fairfax line, surveyed in 1746, ran from the first spring of the Potomac (still marked today by the ) to the first spring of the Rappahannock, at the head of the Conway River. The Northern Neck was composed of 5,282,000 acres, and was larger in area than five of the modern U.S. states. [5] Chesapeake Bay [5] Fairfax Stone [5] [5]
This monument, at the headspring of the Potomac River, markes one of the historic spots of America. Its name is derived from Thomas Lord Fairfax who owned all the land lying between the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers. The first Fairfax Stone, marked "FX", was set in 1746 by Thomas Lewis, a surveyor employed by Lord Fairfax. This is the base point for the western dividing line between Maryland and West Virginia.
Fairfax Stone inscription [5]
Early development of the northern portion of Virginia was in the easternmost area of that early land grant, which encompasses the modern counties of , , , and . At some point, these eastern counties came to be called separately simply "the Northern Neck", and, for the remaining area west of them, the term was no longer used. (By some definitions, is also included in the , which is now considered a separate region from Northern Virginia). Lancaster Northumberland Richmond Westmoreland King George County Northern Neck [6]
One of the most prominent early mentions of "Northern Virginia" (sans the word ) as a title was the naming of the during the (18611865).Neck Confederate Army of Northern Virginia American Civil War
[] edit Colonial period
Historically, in the British first permanently settled at in 1607, the area now generally regarded as "Northern Virginia" was within a larger area defined by a land grant from King on September 18, 1649, while the monarch was in exile in France during the . Eight of his loyal supporters were named, among them Thomas Culpeper. Colony of Virginia Jamestown Charles II of England English Civil War [7]
On February 25, 1673, a new charter was given to and . Lord Culpeper was named the Royal Governor of Virginia from 16771683. ( was later named for him when it was formed in 1749; however, history does not seem to record him as one of the better of Virginia's colonial governors). Although he became governor of Virginia in July 1677, he did not come to Virginia until 1679, and even then seemed more interested in maintaining his land in the "Northern Neck of Virginia" than governing. He soon returned to England. In 1682, rioting in the colony forced him to return, but by the time he arrived, the riots were already quelled. After apparently misappropriating 9,500 from the treasury of the colony, he returned to England and the King was forced to dismiss him. During this tumultuous time, Culpeper's erratic behavior meant that he had to rely increasingly on his cousin and Virginia agent, Col. . Spencer succeeded Culpepper as acting Governor upon Lord Culpeper's departure from the colony. For many years, Lord Culpeper's descendants allowed men in Virginia (primarily ) to manage the properties. Thomas Lord Culpeper Henry Earl of Arlington Culpeper County [8] [9] Nicholas Spencer [10] [11] Robert "King" Carter [12]
Final legal claim to the land was finally established by Lord Culpeper's grandson, , who became well-known in the colony as "Lord Fairfax", in a survey authorized by Governor in 1736. The lands of Lord Fairfax (and Northern Virginia) were defined as that between the and , and were officially called the "Northern Neck". In 1746, a back line was surveyed and established between the headwaters of the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers, defining the west end of the grants. According to documents held by the Handley Regional Library of the Winchester-Frederick County Historical Society, the grants contained 5,282,000 acres. They included the 22 modern counties of Northumberland, Lancaster, Westmoreland, Stafford, King George, Prince William, Fairfax, Loudoun, Fauquier, Rappahannock, Culpeper, Madison, Clarke, Warren, Page, Shenandoah, and Frederick Counties in Virginia, and Hardy, Hampshire, Morgan, Berkeley, and Jefferson Counties in West Virginia. Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron William Gooch [] citation needed Rappahannock Potomac Rivers [13] [14]
Lord Fairfax was a life-long bachelor, and became one of the more well-known persons of the late colonial era. In 1742, the new county formed from was named Fairfax County in his honor, one of numerous place names in Northern Virginia and West Virginia's Eastern Panhandle which were named after him. Lord Fairfax established his residence first at his brother's home at "Belvoir" (now on the grounds of in Fairfax County). Prince William County [15] Fort Belvoir [12]
Not long thereafter, he built a hunting lodge near the Blue Ridge Mountains he named "Greenway Court", which was located near in , and moved there. Around 1748, Lord Fairfax met a youth of 16 named , and, impressed with his energy and talents, employed him to survey his lands lying west of the Blue Ridge. [7] White Post Clarke County George Washington [7]
Lord Fairfax stayed neutral during the . Just a few weeks after the surrender of British troops under General Cornwallis at , he died at his home at Greenway Court on December 9, 1781 at the age of 90. He was entombed on the east side of Christ Church in . While his plans for a large house at Greenway Court never materialized, and his stone lodge is now gone, a small limestone structure he had built still exists on the site. American Revolutionary War Yorktown Winchester [12] [7]
[] edit Statehood, Civil War
Mount Vernon George Washington
Following the , when the formed the , war hero and Virginian was the choice to become its first president. Washington had been a surveyor and developer of for transportation earlier in the 18th century. He was also a great proponent of the bustling port city of , which was located on the Potomac River below the , not far from his plantation at in Fairfax County. American Revolutionary War Thirteen Colonies United States of America George Washington canals Alexandria fall line Mount Vernon
With his guidance, a new federal city (now known as the ) was laid out straddling the Potomac River upon a square of territory which was ceded to the federal government by the new states of and Virginia. Alexandria was located at the eastern edge south of the river. On the outskirts on the northern side of the river, another port city, , was located. District of Columbia Maryland Georgetown
However, as the federal city grew, land in the portion contributed by Maryland proved best suited and adequate for early development and the impracticality of being on both sides of the Potomac River became clearer. Not really part of the functioning federal city, many citizens of Alexandria were frustrated by the laws of the District government and lack of voting input. also arose as an issue. To mitigate these issues, and as part of a "deal" regarding abolishment of slave trading in the District, in 1846, the U.S. Congress passed a bill the area south of the Potomac River, which was known as . That area now forms all of (which was renamed from Alexandria County in 1922) and a portion of the of . Slavery retro-ceding to Virginia Alexandria County Arlington County independent city Alexandria
Slavery, , and economic issues increasingly divided the northern and southern states during the first half of the 19th century, eventually leading to the from 18611865. Although Maryland was a , it remained with the Union, while Virginia seceded and joined the newly formed , with its new capital established at . states rights American Civil War slave state Confederate States of America Richmond, Virginia
With less than 100 miles separating the two capital cities, Northern Virginia found itself in the center of much of the conflict. The area was the site of many battles and saw great destruction and bloodshed. The was the primary army for the in the east. Owing to the regions proximity to Washington D.C and the Potomac River, the armies of both sides frequently occupied and traversed Northern Virginia. As a result, . Army of Northern Virginia Confederate States of America several battles were fought in the area
In addition, Northern Virginia was the operating area of the famed Confederate partisan, , and several small skirmishes were fought throughout the region between his Rangers and Federal forces occupying Northern Virginia. John Singleton Mosby
, a mansion commissioned by a step-grandson of George Washington, last used as a home by .