» » Annuities for All Home Annuities for the Masses
Annuities for All
More and more people are taking steps to invest their savings in their future. One of the main reasons for such investments is the fact that people are living longer now than they used to a few decades back, and also they wish to retire earlier. To guarantee a certain quality of life after retirement it is important that one decide upon a strategy for investing in the golden years. Annuities are insurance policies offered by insurance companies where the investor pays a certain amount of money and is guaranteed a certain return amount and rate of interest. The amount payable by the investor is most often decided by his or her life expectancy. Annuities are financial investment vehicles that should be considered by all. Whether you are a fresher and just starting your professional career, or having been working for a few years now or are ready to retire, annuities offer interesting and favorable terms and conditions for all. Annuities are meant for all investors, big and small, the young and the young at heart; essentially they help plan out one's future and savings, and investments can be made according to one's individual financial needs. Instead of asking, "Why should we all invest in annuities?" one should be asking "Why not?" Here are some valuable answers.
Annuities are of many different kinds and there is one that suits every investor. So whether you want immediate returns or want to defer payment from your investment, annuities provide the ideal solution. From the conservative investor to those who are willing to take moderate risks, annuities offer something for all. A brief look at the types of annuities available in the market today would reflect the flexibility and versatility offered by this investment option.
The rate of interest offered by an annuity is higher than one would receive by leaving the money in the savings account or by investing in CDs.
Tax is deferred on most annuities and this means that you will not be paying taxes yearly on your investment but in fact will pay them only when your receive income from the annuity or make a withdrawal from it. Thus your investment grows in a better and faster rate, and also by the time the investor receives income from the annuity they are in a lower tax bracket.
Annuities can be bought with a one-time payment or by making regular payments and this aspect makes it attractive to all investors.
You can choose to invest in an annuity according to the amount of money you wish to receive later from it. Furthermore it is also possible to hold an annuity jointly so that you are also able to secure your partner's financial future.
Annuities are worth considering and investing in for all. It is advisable to contact an annuity broker who will be able to assess your financial situation and help your decide how to invest your money in annuities..