Immunizations for Children and Adults
What's New
The 2008-2009 Flu Season
Public Health promotes the immunization of all children and adults in an effort to prevent serious and sometimes deadly diseases.
Our family immunizations program provides as recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, and as required by California schools. We also offer upon request, including those that are recommended by your physician and those requested by your employer or school. We offer for screening and work clearance for adults and children.routine childhood and adolescent vaccinesadult immunizationsTuberculosis (TB) skin testing
Related Links
The TB Control Program provides confidential testing and treatment services for both latent TB infection and active TB disease.
We offer the following vaccines for children ages 6 weeks through 18 years:
Diphtheria, Tetanus, acellular Pertussis (DTaP)
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib)
Hepatitis A (HepA)
Influenza - seasonal, based on availability
Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR)
Meningococcal (MCV4) - ages 11-18 years
Tetanus, diptheria, acellular pertussis (Tdap) - ages 11-18 years
Varicella (chicken pox)
Pneumococcal 23 valent - ages 2 years to adult
Polio
Combination vaccines are used where appropriate.
Does your child need to have their To prevent the spread of vaccine-preventable diseases, the California School Immunization Law requires that children receive a series of immunizations before entry into schools, child care centers and family child care homes.Don't wait until the last minute!immunizations updated?
A fee of $10 per injection is requested. However, no child is refused because of inability to pay. Please bring any previous immunization records with you to your visit. Parent or guardian must read important information and sign required forms for each child receiving immunizations.
Patients are seen on a walk-in basis only. We will take walk-ins until we reach maximum capacity.
We also offer the following adult vaccines for a one-time visit fee of $33, plus the cost of the vaccine(s):
Hepatitis A (HepA)
Influenza - seasonal, based on availability
Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR)