» » , » Home Journal Healthy Dieting Weight Loss Weight Loss Psychology: Tips For Easier Dieting
( votes, average: out of 5)
2054.62
 Loading ...
Weight Loss Psychology: Tips For Easier Dieting
It’s true; is much more psychological than it is physical. It’s easy to set a weight loss goal, and much harder to actually meet it. It takes a considerable amount of drive and determination to commit yourself to a major goal like weight loss and follow through with it. If you are dedicated to losing weight, consider these tips to help maintain a positive attitude and to push you through the rough times. weight loss focus
Get Support
The support and encouragement of others is a vital aspect of anyone’s life, and for those looking to lose weight can be especially helpful. Those around you can acknowledge your achievements and provide encouragement when you are feeling stuck. You may find a friend who will work out with you. Don’t underestimate the power of a therapist or support group. While some people mock therapy, saying it’s for weak people, it actually takes a great deal of personal strength to go to therapy and address what you consider character flaws. A therapist or support group can cheer you on as you head towards your weight loss goal, and give you another perspective if you are at a plateau.
Think Long Term
Be aware that even when you meet your weight loss goal, you should not simply stop the diet and exercise regimen. Achieving your goal is amazing, and you should celebrate it. Then you should adjust your goal to your new fitness level. Visualize your fitness goal as a lifestyle change, not a periodic goal with a specific endpoint. Adapt your goals as you reach new levels and lower weights.
Self Monitor
Studies have shown that those who self monitor are much more likely to maintain weight loss over a number of years. Whether you monitor fitness levels, dropped pant sizes or daily caloric intake, a regular awareness of how far you’se come will help motivate you to keep the weight off.
Positive Attitude
Keep a positive attitude towards your weight loss goals and body image. Remember that you made a decision to lose weight for a reason, and that you can accomplish your goal. Make exercise fun by trying out new activities and classes. Vamp up your diet with new recipes, fun cookbooks and different foods.
Pamper Yourself
Remember to still take care of yourself. Engage in activities that make you feel good, that invigorate and refresh you, whether it’s a massage or just a long, warm bath. Allow yourself to indulge in a “forbidden food” once in a while. Treat yourself well, don’t deprive yourself of everything you love. Know that you are not perfect, and you may slip off the diet once in a while. Acknowledge this, then forgive yourself, and try again.
With the right mindset, you can achieve anything. Understand that long term dieting and weight loss required dedication and focus, and that you have the strength of character that it takes to meet your goal.
Written by Gloria Price for MicroNutra Health™
This entry was posted on Thursday, February 14th, 2008 at 1:33 pm and is filed under , . You can follow any responses to this entry through the feed. You can , or from your own site. Healthy Dieting Weight Loss RSS 2.0 leave a response trackback
Leave a Reply