> Starbucks Campaign
Starbucks Campaign
Coffee farmers are becoming even more impoverished, going further into debt and losing their land due to extremely low world coffee prices. Meanwhile coffee companies such as Starbucks have not lowered consumer prices but are pocketing the difference, even taking into account the quality premiums in the specialty industry. Read Global Exchange's on Starbucks recently introduced "CAFE Program." In 2000, a campaign by thousands of activists across the country pressured Starbucks to carry Fair Trade coffee in all their cafes. See and for more information. As a result, on October 4 Starbucks introduced whole bean Fair Trade Certified coffee at over 2,300 stores, which brought the number of Fair Trade outlets to almost 5,000 nationwide (it's currently over 7,500). This is an amazing testament to the power of grassroots Fair Trade activism and the real concrete changes that citizens can make in global trade system when we demand products made under fair labor conditions. This was achieved because of the pressure of our , including 84 organizations that signed an to Starbucks as well as 29 national demonstrations that were planned across the country. Still, people should know that there is no guarantee that coffee without the Fair Trade seal is not sweatshop coffee.
According to Fair Trade Labeling Organizations International, Fair Trade farmers sell only about 20% of their coffee at a Fair Trade price. The rest is sold at the world price, due to lack of demand. Demand can be created by large corporations selling Fair Trade.
Since 2000, consumers have been demanding that Starbucks offer BREWED Fair Trade coffee as well as whole bean. Many Starbucks cafes will brew a pot of Fair Trade - but only if specifically asked. Meanwhile Fair Trade Coffee has yet to be promoted as the brewed Coffee of the Day, which is the only way to ensure real volume for Fair Trade Farmers.
statement
What you can do:
in OCA's ongoing campaign to pressure Starbucks to offer rBGH-free milk, ban GMOs, and offer BREWED Fair Trade Certified as Coffee of the Day once a week. Participate
Download our new Starbucks flyer (PDF 1.6mb). here
If you are a Starbucks customer, always buy Fair Trade! Tell the Starbucks workers and customers -- our potential allies -- about your commitment to buy only Fair Trade, and keep asking for Fair Trade coffee.brewed
Gather asking Starbucks to sell Fair Trade brewed coffee. petitions
Starbucks will offer Fair Trade coffee only at universities where students demand it. Let your voice be heard!
Get connected with the Fair Trade coffee campaign moderated ! listserve
Read more about Starbucks and Fair Trade in the . news