[] Subscribe To This Site ?
technology has been around a while. It has become vital to the great advances in weather forecasts that we have seen over the last 50 years or so. For example, see a sample satellite image for We can derive planet temperatures, humidity pictures, cloud pics and from the satellite depictions. Both for identifying long-term trends and providing the needed for short-term weather predictions, sometimes called . The first weather satellite: The world saw Tiros-1 (1 tiros) launched in 1960, USA. Since then we have become used to a world monitored by five and four satellites. That was brief. Are you in the satellite business? Selling satellite receivers and signals? Or do you have anything to do with imagery? If so, sell your stuff online. Can I make it easier? Check this out and find out how I made this A satellite can be engineered to fly with a perfect combination of acceleration, speed, velocity and height so that its position above a particular spot on the rotating earth never changes. That's what geostationary means. It has to be over the equator for this to work. And since it is so high, it can give us a good equator map and cloud pictures over most of the earth, except for the poles. It has to go nearly 7,000 miles or 11,000 km per hour relative to the earth's axis to stay properly positioned. These two types of satellites provide us with at variety of angles for interpreting the imagary and making sense of the Geostationary - Steady, high frequency image satellite weather pictures and large area photographs. Good for animated satellite displays. Polar Orbiting - Greater image satellite weather resolution for studying and analyzing photos, but not for animating them. This one's also less costly.
An image satellite weather folks check.
How do we interpret satellite imagery? To use the pictures from the specialists need to process and customize the information. image satellite weather
Image satellite weather
wind data greater precision nowcasting
It has other uses. Satellite pix offer us enhanced perspective for use in studies for instance. Large scale image satellite weather has become important to pilots flying into areas with a sparse surface weather data. We can extract the information they need from a series of photographs. air pollution