100 count Tagless Tea Bags
$70.19
Total
NOTES
As with all of my recipes, I include plenty of milk for growing children and pregnant or nursing mothers.  Orange Juice is served every morning but Thursday.  On that day there are 2 other fruits served in addition to raw cabbage which is very rich in Vitamin C.  The menu assumes 1/2-cup of orange juice for each person every day that it is served.  This is a relatively small serving.  To make it look like more you can add a couple of icecubes or some crushed ice to the cup.  If you have a supply of small juice cups, now is the time to put them to use.
Since this menu is based on a limited number of ingredients, a few accommodations must be made.
All of the bread is homemade using the Overnight method.  
All milk is reconstituted, and margarine is used instead of butter.
For the recipes that call for dried onion, substitute a small amount of finely chopped fresh onion.
For the recipes calling for fresh garlic, substitute a small amount of garlic powder instead. 
In any recipe calling for shortening, use margarine instead.
In any recipe calling for oil, use melted margarine or liquid bacon grease instead.  The flavor and texture will still be good.  Plain muffins (Sunday) are especially good prepared with bacon grease.
Desserts haven't been included in this menu, but if you'd like to have some, there are several listed under Miscellaneous in the below. Recipes
DailyWork
Saturday Night: 
Mix up a pitcher of orange juice, a gallon of milk and a gallon of Tea. Put them into the fridge to chill. 
Mix up the meatloaf and press it into the pan. 
Prepare the kitchen for tomorrow and go to bed.
 Sunday:
Wake up early and do your Sunday School Lesson.  
Prepare a hearty breakfast for everyone and do up the dishes.  
Go to church.  
When you get home put the meatloaf into bake right away.  Then change clothes and set the table. 
Mix up the Muffins and put them into bake.  
Prepare the mashed potatoes and boil the green beans.  Serve the hungry family with a smile on your face. 
Before going to bed prepare a batch of Overnight Bread and put it aside to rise.  
Put 2 pounds of small white bean in water to cover and allow them to soak overnight. 
Look over the beverages and prepare more as needed.
Monday: 
Make Breakfast and pack the lunches. 
After the breakfast dishes are done put shape the bread and allow it to rise. When it has doubled in bulk, bake it as directed.
Prepare the Baked Beans using 1 tablespoon of prepared yellow mustard instead of the dry mustard called for in the recipe. 
After the beans have finished baking set aside 3 cups for supper on Wednesday night.  Serve the rest for dinner tonight.  Save any leftovers from tonight for lunch tomorrow. 
Prepare the Cole Slaw using 4 cups of shredded cabbage and allow it to chill until dinner time.  Half will be for dinner tonight and half for lunch tomorrow.  
Look over the beverages and prepare more as needed. 
Tuesday: 
After making breakfast heat up any leftover baked beans with 5 or 6 sliced hot dogs.  Slice the hot dogs thinly so they will go further.  The remaining hot dogs will be used for lunch on Saturday.  Simmer the beanie weenies for several minutes and then put them into pre-heated thermoses for lunch. Pack everything else with a cold pack to keep it cool and fresh until lunch. 
Prepare the Garlic Bread Sticks.  Set half of them aside for snack tomorrow, and serve the other half for snack today. They are very good. 
When you make dinner prepare enough rice for dinner tonight and breakfast in the morning.  2-cups dry rice, cooked in 4-cups of water should be enough.
Before bed boil 4 to 6 eggs for tomorrow's lunch. 
Remember to check the milk and iced tea and prepare more as necessary. 
 Wednesday:
Make Rice Pancakes using the rice leftover from yesterday. 
After serving breakfast make egg salad for lunch and pack the lunches with a cold pack. 
Serve leftover garlic sticks for snack.  They are good cold. 
When you make dinner prepare enough rice for dinner tonight and breakfast in the morning.  2-cups dry rice, cooked in 4-cups of water should be enough.
Use the 3 cups of beans you set aside on Monday for supper tonight.  
Prepare the dough for Overnight bread before going to bed. 
Check the milk & iced tea supply, prepare more as necessary.
Thursday: 
Prepare Hot Rice Cereal using rice leftover from yesterday. 
Make Tuna Salad in the morning using two 6-ounce cans of tuna.  Pack the lunches with a cold pack. 
After you do the breakfast dishes  divide the bread dough into 4 loaves and set aside to rise until doubled in bulk.  Bake as directed.
Make up a batch of homemade tortillas for dinner tonight and put them in a plastic bag.  Store them in the fridge until needed. 
Prepare a batch of Doodle Bugs and chill until snack time.  Check the milk & iced tea supply, prepare more as necessary.
fry up a pound of ground beef and use a fork to smash it into small bits.  When it is brown drain off the fat.  Add 2 tablespoons flour and stir until the meat is sort of dusty looking.  Add 1/4 to 1/2 cup of chopped onion and 1/2 cup of water.  Sprinkle in 1 tablespoon chili powder, 1 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.  Simmer until thickened.  Serve on homemade tortillas with a little bit of shredded cheese.  Instead of lettuce, top the tortillas with finely shredded cabbage.  It is very good.  Almost better than lettuce in fact. Pass hot sauce at the table for them who like it spicy.To make the Simple Taco Meat
prepare rice in the normal way using 1 cup of dry rice and 2 cups of water.  Add 1/2-teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons of margarine and 1 cup of frozen peas right before you put the lid on and simmer for 20 minutes. To make Buttery Peas & Rice
Friday: 
After breakfast fry up some bacon and eggs for lunches.  Pop the yolks so they will be thoroughly cooked.  Pack the lunches with a cold pack for freshness. 
Before bed look over the beverage situation and prepare more as needed.  
Also set a pound of kidney beans to soak overnight. 
Saturday: 
Prepare breakfast in the morning as directed. 
Afterwards simmer the kidney beans for an hour and then proceed as directed.  Chill until supper time. 
To make the cabbage just slice it and fry it in bacon grease.  Salt and pepper to taste.
Make the cornbread and reheat the beans at dinnertime. 
Check the milk & iced tea supply, prepare more as necessary.  
Clean up the kitchen and get it ready for the rest of the week.
Recipes