 
Message from the Colonel
Keeping citizens informed about the varying services that the South Dakota Highway Patrol provides is vital to our effectiveness as a law enforcement agency. I am committed to providing South Dakotans and web site visitors with the most current, timely, and comprehensive information available.
As the Internet and the World Wide Web continue to grow, the South Dakota Highway Patrol will use this means of communication to inform, educate, and aid our communication with the public.
Our efforts are consistent with the objectives of Governor M. Michael Rounds. Governor Rounds recognizes the vast potential held by the development of information resources. State government should be on the cutting edge of this technology and look for innovative ways to improve service to the citizens of South Dakota and people throughout the world who visit South Dakota State Government web sites.
This web page features information about the history of the Patrol, a department directory, employment opportunities, newsroom, motor carrier, special services, and frequently asked questions. We have included important links for you such as: South Dakota road and weather conditions, road construction information, Office of Driver Licensing, Office of Highway Safety, Accident Records, and South Dakota laws. Do not hesitate to contact us if you have ideas or suggestions for improving the South Dakota Highway Patrol web site.
Daniel C. MostellerColonel 
Mission Statement
It is the mission of the South Dakota Highway Patrol to serve the citizens of South Dakota with pride and distinction.  We will safeguard lives and property.  We will protect the innocent from deception, protect the weak against oppression, and protect the peaceful from violence and disorder.  We will respect the Constitutional rights of all men and women.  We will endeavor to uphold the principles of liberty, equality, and justice.
The men and women of the South Dakota Highway Patrol will promote traffic safety, enforce existing statutes, recognize and eliminate traffic hazards, and encourage motorists to practice safe driving techniques.  We will effectively investigate crime and reduce criminal activity.  The Highway Patrol will provide investigative assistance and support services to all law enforcement agencies.
We will maintain and provide accurate and timely information to the citizens we serve.  Troopers will strive for excellence in the performance of their duties and be vigilant to increase their knowledge of  law enforcement procedures.  We will provide prompt and competent emergency service when called to duty.  We will demonstrate bravery when faced with danger.  We will not abuse our oath, our badge, our honor.
The men and women of the South Dakota Highway Patrol will promote highway safety throughout the State of South Dakota by education, by fair law enforcement, and by example.
Please check out information on: