OSP Sponsored and Endorsed by:
 
OPS NEWSAugust 1, 2007
COACHING HOUR CHRONICLES IS LATEST TITLE FROM OSP SHOOTING SCHOOL'S GIL & VICKI ASHWhen shotgunning instructors Gil and Vicki Ash began their SP Coaching Hourmonthly telesconference in 2001, it was an experiment to see if they could recreate the clubhouse magic that sometimes happens when shooters congregate outside the skeet field or range house, sharing what theye learned. As pioneers in competitive sporting clays and professional instruction in the U.S., there were no instructors from whom they could learn the sport, and they found the best way to improve their game was from the sharing of information among their fellow shooters. It wasn as efficient or focused as going to an experienced instructor some shooters just weren good at instructing others no matter how well they shot but the pooling of knowledge and experiences often proved beneficial. That concept, with the addition of professional instructors and a more coherent format, became the basis of the highly-successful SP Coaching Hour.The Ashes found the magic they sought, and the SP Coaching Houris now in its sixth year. Along with the hour of discussion and instruction, subscribers get a CD of the show so they can listen to it again. Now, Gil and Vicki Ash are offering the first year of SP Coaching Hourshows in book form, THE COACHING HOUR CHRONICLES, Book 1: Conversations in the Pursuit of Sporting Clays Excellence. Other seasons will follow. These collected conversations from the first year of the SP Coaching Hourfeature the Ashes, along with other coaches, leading discussions on wide-ranging topics. e find that the oaching Hourrepresents our most up-to-date instruction and shooting knowledge,say the Ashes. n the early days, we were exploring concepts that wee since covered in books, and now wee blazing new concepts that we have yet to cover anywhere else. Among the many topics covered in the first season book are reading and viewing targets; visualization; commitment to the breakpoint; looking at the barrel; letting the bird come to you; quality vs. quantity; learning from a failure; benefits of making and writing down goals; slumps and plateaus; practice routines; preparing for and reflecting upon Nationals; lessons learned from tournaments; transition to a new gun; and much more. THE COACHING HOUR CHRONICLES, Book 1, is a 287-page paperback book and is available from OSP Shooting School for $24.95, plus $10 shipping and handling. To order or to learn more about the SP Coaching Hourand the book series, visit . OSP Shooting School, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is the nation's leading resource for shotgun shooting instruction. Its owners, Gil and Vicki Ash, are full-time, NSCA Level III instructors who teach thousands of shooters each year through clinics, private lessons, books, videos, magazine articles, the "OSP Coaching Hour" shotgunning call-in show, seminars, and other personal appearances. For more information, visit the OSP website at .