Promo code:
The Choice is Clear - Make the Switch to DIRECTV Today!
DIRECTV satellite service offers you the best quality television, the best customer service and great . With DIRECTV you get over 265 all-digital channels including , , and , over 70 commercial free XM Satellite radio channels and your . If you are passionate about sports, eager to see the latest movies and keen on a crystal clear, picture-perfect , then DIRECTV is the television provider for you! deals 31 premium movie channels 37 specialty and regional sports networks DIRECTV's exclusive NFL SUNDAY TICKET NCAA MEGA MARCH MADNESS local channels High Definition Satellite Television
With DIRECTV satellite television, feel assured that you have found the gateway to spectacular entertainment. DIRECTV wins with more choices than cable and better customer service and programming options than other satellite providers. DIRECTV gives you dozens of packages to choose from including our most popular programming package. Choose our standard receiver with a customizable programming guide, or upgrade to an or ... whatever option you choose, you won't go wrong with DIRECTV's exceptional quality and convenience! PREMIER HD Direct DVR receiver
DIRECTV offers unbeatable service and delivers a digital signal 99.96% of the time, rain or shine. Join the 14.5 million DIRECTV subscribers and make the switch to the most reliable and affordable television provider. Order now and get a or upgrade! Free HD DVR Receiver
Don't wait another minute, order or call 1-800-598-6541 to speak with a customer representative. Ordering is easy and remember, with DIRECTV satellite service, you get , free equipment, the highest customer satisfaction rating and 100% digital picture and sound. The choice is clear, go from Good TV to Better TV - choose DIRECTV, DIRECTV online now free installation order now!
   Wondering which DIRECTV package is right for you?
Call for custom-tailored advice from a DIRECTV expert.1-800-598-6541
Promo Code: 84656003
 |   |  DIRECTV Promotions & Deals NFL Sunday Ticket Order DIRECTV Service Now
*SAVINGS include Free Shipping and Handling (a $20 value), an $18/mo national offer rebate for 12 months for CHOICE and above, a $5/mo auto pay/email bonus rebate for 12 months for CHOICE and above, up to a $199 rebate on advanced equipment (DVR Service and/or HD Access fee required) for CHOICE XTRA and above ($99 rebate on advanced equipment for CHOICE when you order online), and a $35/mo bill credit for 3 months for HBO, Starz, and SHOWTIME for CHOICE XTRA and above. †With activation of CHOICE XTRA package or higher. Programming, DVR service and/or HD Access fee commitments required. **Eligibility based on service address. Not all networks available in all markets. Offer ends 3/03/09. Offers are based on approved credit. Credit card required (MA & PA excluded). New customers only (lease required). Lease fee $4.99/mo. for second and each additional receiver.