By Alan F. Fogelquist, Ph. D. Al-Qaeda and the Question of State Sponsorship
Editorial Policy
Articles presented on this website reflect the viewpoint of each individual author and not those of the the editor. The site is designed as a forum for a wide range of viewpoints and perspectives. Over time the editor hopes to present materials reflecting different sides of complex and controversial issues. Well documented, factual, and analytical articles that strive for objectivity and balance are preferred over propagandistic materials that present only one side of an issue. Readers should not assume that because an article published on the site presents one viewpoint that other perspectives will not be accepted or presented in the future. The site is in a state of development. Scholars and journalists are encouraged submit materials for publication or republication to increase the range and scope of the material presented.
Contact link for article submissions.
Copyright Policy
All full text articles presented on the Global Geopolitics Net site and related blogs have been published with the express permission of the author and/or copyright holder. These materials may not be republished or reproduced on another blog or website without the written permission of the author or copyright holder.
Eurasia Research Center - Global Geopolitics Net
Eurasia Research Center - Global Geopolitics Net is a non-commercial educational project aimed at fostering public understanding of complex problems and issues facing the world today. The Eurasia Research Center includes a personal library and archive of articles and documents collected and organized by Alan F. Fogelquist for purposes of research and analysis on world issues as part of a free educational effort maintained personally by project organizer. The Eurasia Research Center - Global Geopolititcs Net project has not applied for nor received grant money or financial assistance from any public or private institution or organization. All costs of maintaining the library, document archives, computer equipment, and related websites and blogs of the Eurasia Research Center project have been incurred at the personal expense of Alan F. Fogelquist, Ph.D. and his family. All articles and information provided on the website have been offerred free of charge and the Eurasia Research Center and Global Geopolitics Net web sites are advertisement free and do not seek advertising revenues.
The Editor and Web Master
Alan Fogelquist, Ph. D., Chief Editor, Global Geopolitics Net Director of the Eurasia Research Center.