 
Get Annuity Rates and Calculate Returns
As for any other insurance, as for calculation itself, working out the actual gains and returns in numbers, the future values of present income, and present values of future investment are undoubtedly tedious. There are enough reasons to ignore and avoid such calculations, more so, if you have other people to do it! However, the results of these calculations can be sweet, sweeter if you do these on your own and be careful with your money. Definitely, you will feel happier to get a reassured sum of money when you need it the most, during your retirement age. For this, you have three things to do, get annuity rates and calculate returns for various annuity schemes. Finally, compare these returns and pick up the one that seems to give you the best returns.
To make your calculations easy, there are annuity tables offered on most annuity brochures and web sites. It is common and useful to refer to annuity tables while deciding the worth of your retirement annuity plan several years from now, or calculate approximately the worth of the monthly payment from an annuity plan on your eightieth birthday.
Understanding annuity tables is easy. On the column you may find the number of years and on the row the rates of interest. Annuity tables will give you the present worth of $1 to be paid at the end of various periods in the future, at different interest rates compounded annually. Therefore, you simply need to find out the cell where the number of years and the rate of interest in question intercept, pick up the figure and multiply it with the amount of dollar you want to invest. For example, you want to invest for 7 years at a 4.5 percent rate. The worth of ‘One Dollar’ invested for seven years at the rate of 4.5 percent, according to annuity tables, might give you back $ 5.89 at the end of seven years. In essence, your money will increase almost 6 times. That is, if you are investing $ 1000, you will get back $5890. Now, you can decide whether the investment you are considering is worth undertaking.
Tables, which include differential interest rates over different periods and varying modes of payment, can be more complex but we can leave them for the analysts. There are several other factors that go into deciding annuity settlement options, and surely, with annuity tables, you will have conquered the most difficult of them.
For more information on the best annuity rates, and to see what’s on offer from over 30 insurance companies and 300 annuity programs, or call at the toll-free number 1-800-998-4056. Annuity experts at the can advise on the complicated contracts, calculate and compare returns from various annuity offers, advice you on the best choice for you, and help grow your savings. Click here www.AnnuityLibrary.com www.AnnuityLibrary.com
 