Tours4Fun Sightseeing Tours
Google Maps & Google Earth SightseeingAbout
Have you recently discovered a satellite image that's worth sharing? Are you ready to do some sightseeing from the comfort of your desk chair? If so, you're at the right place! Satellite Sights is your link to interesting satellite images from around the world, submitted, researched, and maintained by users like you. Interesting sights are viewable through embedded Google Maps, Windows Live Virtual Earth, and Google Street View images, as well as downloadable Google Earth KML files.
SatelliteSights.com is the ONLY satellite sightseeing project that is completely community driven. This means that we need your help -- with your contributions, we can make SatelliteSights.com the most interesting and extensive location for satellite sightseeing on the internet!
Why is SatelliteSights.com better than other related sites?
The content is 100% community driven -- users like you publish, research, and maintain the satellite images and the history/context behind them.
The site interface is clean, fresh, and easy to use. Sights can be viewed through Google Maps, Windows Live Virtual Earth, Google Street View, or Google Earth KML files. Searching and browsing couldn't be easier, with logical categories and locations. Further, searching/browsing results can be displayed as a simple text-based list, or a list displaying smaller versions of the satellite images.
ALL images in the database can be downloaded and displayed in Google Earth by downloading a single KML file!
Posting a new satellite image is simple! An intuitive "what you see is what you get" interface, utilizing an embedded Google Maps image, allows you to manually pan and zoom until the sight is exactly how you want it. Latitude/longitude inputs, as well as a Google Maps "Link to this Page" URL input, are provided as an easy starting point.
Posting a satellite image and comments/descriptions can be done anonymously or through a free account! Signing up and using an account allows posts and comments to be permanently attributed to you. Each account holder receives a user page displaying all your contributions.
Most importantly, it's FREE!
Satellite Sights is designed, developed, and maintained by bmeyer2 Development
For questions, comments, concerns, or inquiries regarding advertising or link exchanges, please ! contact us
467 Satellite Images Posted!