India History
Once upon a time there lived an Arab woman named Arjumand Banu. We know very little about her, except that she lived in Agra, India, and was the Sultana of Shah Jehan, the greatest of the Mogul emperors. She must have been a good woman and a good wife, because, after eighteen years of married life, and within twelve months after his accession to the throne, in 1629, she died in giving birth to her fourteenth baby. And her husband loved her so much that he sheltered her grave with a mausoleum which, without question or reservation, is pronounced by all architects and critics to be the most beautiful building in the world--the most sublime and perfect work of human hands.  Click here to read more.
Seven ancient ruined cities, representing successive periods and dynasties from 2500 B. C. to 1600 A. D., encumber the plains immediately surrounding the city of Delhi, within a radius of eighteen or twenty miles; and you cannot go in any direction without passing through the ruins of stupendous walls, ancient fortifications and crumbling palaces, temples, mosques and tombs. Tradition makes the original Delhi the political and commercial rival of Babylon, Nineveh, Memphis and Thebes, but the modern town dates from 1638, the commencement of the reign of the famous Mogul Shah Jehan. About eleven miles from the city is a group of splendid ruins, some of the most remarkable in the world, and a celebrated tower known as the Kutab-Minar, one of the most important architectural monuments in India. You reach it by the Great Trunk Road of India, the most notable thoroughfare in the empire, which has been the highway from the mountains and northern provinces to the sacred River Ganges from the beginning of time. If followed it will lead you through Turkestan and Persia to Constantinople and Moscow. Over this road came Tamerlane, the Tartar Napoleon, with his victorious army, and Alexander the Great, and it has been trodden by the feet of successive invaders for twenty or thirty centuries. Today it leads to the Khyber Pass, the only gateway between India and Afghanistan. Click here to read more.
The first real civilization in India was around 2500 BC, living near the Indus River valley.From 1500 BC to around 200 BC, Aryan invaders came from central Asia, taking over control of the northern regions or India.With them, they brought traditions for raising cattle and eating meat, along with gods.However, in the 8 century, the caste system, which was a hierarchy governed by strict rules took back supremacy.Historians then tell us that around 500 BC, Buddhism became the religion of India, being embraced by the Indian people while driving through Hinduism beliefs. 
   th 
During the time from 40 to 600 AD, several Indian empires rose and fell and at this time, the practice of Buddhism began to decline.Around this time, north India separated into different Hindu kingdoms, especially after being invaded by the Huns.These kingdoms remained segregated until the Muslims arrived in 1192 from the Middle East.Over the next 20 years, all of Ganges basin was under the control of the Muslims and Islam was not able to penetrate the south.Additionally, two powerful kingdoms were formed in what we know today as Karnataka.This region consisted of two kingdoms - Vijayanagar, a Hindu kingdom and Bahmani, a fragmented Muslim kingdom.       Click here to read more.
We offer the Internet's largest selection of Asian Arts, Crafts, and Collectibles with over 7,500 different items in stock in our Maryland warehouse. Our products are handcrafted and imported from Japan, China, Korea, Bali, India, Vietnam, Russia, Ceylon, Nepal, and Thailand. So sit back, relax, and enjoy your visit.
 