Jump to: , navigation search
is an issue regarding pay between men and women. It is often introduced into domestic in many countries as an problem that needs governmental intervention via . Generally, in countries due to cultural and/or religious reasons the pay disparity is much higher. However, there may be some exceptions.Equal pay for women inequality politics first world economic regulation third world
Contents
8 External links
[] edit Pay Equity in Bahrain
is sometimes provided as an example of a society where women earn more than men; according to a survey on gender pay inequality by the , female workers in the Gulf state earn 40% more than male workers (possibly due to very low female participation in paid employment). Bahrain International Trade Union Confederation [1]
[] edit United States Equal Pay Act of 1963
Main article: Equal Pay Act of 1963 [2]
passed by the in 1963 made it illegal to pay men and women different wage rates for equal work on jobs that require equal , effort, and responsibility and are performed under similar working conditions. Legislation Federal Government of the United States skill
[] edit United Kingdom Equal Pay Act of 1970
The Equal Pay Act of 1970 was established by to prevent discrimination as regards to terms and conditions of between and . Parliament employment men women
A similar act to these was passed in in 1972. France
These reflected Article 119 of the original , which started: "" EEC Treaty Each Member State shall in the course of the first stage ensure and subsequently maintain the application of the principle of equal remuneration for equal work as between men and women workers.
[] edit Gender Wage Equity in the United States
Main article: Male-female income disparity in the USA
Two questions naturally arise: (1) is there actually a wage gap disparity and, if so, where? (2) why and how has it arisen or maintained itself? Over time, two points of view have availed themselves: one that credits the difference to questions of personal choice, and another that ties the disparity to continuing or vestigial bias or discrimination.
[] edit The "Choice" Theory
There have been studies published which have shown that once variables have been removed, pay for men and women with the same experience and education is virtually identical. This has highly advanced the argument that the pay disparity exists due to different choices and values that men and women consider in their careers - men routinely accept more dangerous and higher paying careers than women while women typically choose to devote a substantial amount of their career path time to families and parenting (). Similarly, men are more willing to travel or relocate, take less time off, and work more hours per week. [3] mommy track [4]
This is the point of view espoused in "The Wage Gap Myth" and in a recent installment of John Stossel's "Give Me a Break" and described in more detail in the follow-up reference "'Gender Pay Gap' is pap".
The 'choice' theory is explored from a practical point of view in 's book "Why Men Earn More" (The Startling Truth Behind the Pay Gap - and What Women Can Do About It). Farrell has advocated the idea that "the power of money is not in its earning but in its spending", and has thus emphasized the fact that American women account for 80+% of consumer discretionary spending, which points to the existence of a massive transfer of wealth from men to women that is entirely overlooked by all studies based only on the analysis of wages. Warren Farrell
Proponents of the 'choice' theory argue that if employers were allowed to pay women with the same experience and education as men much less than men, then employers would disproportionately hire women to increase profits. [5]
An , 2005 article titled "Gender Wage Gap Is Feminist Fiction" from the libertarian states, "A study of the gender wage gap conducted by economist June O' Neill, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, found that women earn 98% of what men do when controlled for experience, education, and number of years on the job." April 15 Independent Women's Forum [6]
[] edit The "Discrimination" Theory
In this point of view, espoused by the EOC and described in "Whatever Happened to Equal Pay", the effects of continuing inequity still make themselves felt in the form of gender segregation in the work force, the undervaluation of the types of jobs held prevalently by women, inequities built into the pay system, itself, and the differences in working patterns (e.g. the ). mommy track
In a free market capitalist economy this wage gap would quickly be exploited. Corporations could hire only females and return the reduced labor costs to share holders.
This following part . Please by adding . See the for details.may contain or original research unverified claims improve the article references talk page
(September 2007)
See also: sex and intelligence
Hedges and Nowell (1995) mentioned that male advantage in edges and Nowell (1995) performed a meta-analysis of national ability surveys that cover a 32-year period. Their primary conclusion is that male scores show greater variance in most abilities. The use of representative samples gives them reassurance that these differences in variance are true, and not the result of differential selection by sex. Their second finding is that average differences in most abilities are small. Exceptions include moderate to strong average advantages for men in math and science and typically male vocations, and moderate to strong average disadvantages to men in reading. They suggest the male advantage in measures of typical male vocations is not predictive, but that the other strong differences are. Thus, they are concerned about the relative disadvantage of men in writing and the disadvantage to women in science and math. However, test scores in both Europe and Asia have shown that in many countries, girls actually outscore boys in math and science, which leaves the differences and similarities between the sexes controversial[] clarification needed [7]
[] edit Time of Birth as the Primary Factor
This article . Please by adding . See the for details.may contain or original research unverified claims improve the article references talk page
(June 2008)
A comparison frequently cited is derived from statistics maintained by the United States Census Bureau from 2003, relating specifically to an across-the-board comparison of year-round full-time workers. Series P-60 of the Current Population Reports maintains regular updates on the distribution of the American population by income, broken down by various demographic attributes, including age and gender.women make 75.3 cents on the dollar to men
A closer view of these statistics tends to show that both points of view have missed the mark in serious ways. Indeed, both aggregate statistics and the various methods of breaking down the work world by segments and doing side-by-side comparisons miss the most significant feature of the inequity -- the time of birth: the generation or cohort of the population.
Once this is taken into account, the pattern of inequity in the United States becomes largely predictable. Therefore, it should be considered as the primary factor, with others that may be present derived from it. Indeed, much of what is otherwise attributed to this issue may rightfully be considered to already be subsumed by this single attribute. The society one is born and raised in, in large measure, conditions the values one is instilled with and, subsequently, the propensity toward choosing one or another type of career. Likewise, it conditions the attitudes of potential coworkers, underlings and bosses ... as well as those who would have the power to hire, promote or fire an individual.
In this way, both points of view are incorporated as corollaries.
Three interesting features stand out, when the demographics are broken down by time of birth:
For a given generation, the relative wage disparity tends to remain the same over time. Overall, there is a slight downward trend, but compared to nearby generations, the difference is not that significant.
The disparity does not have a history of having steadily diminishing over time. In fact, it reaches its maximum with the generation preceding the baby boom generation, bottoming out for those who reached their 20th birthday in the mid 1950s.
Following this generation, there is an abrupt transition going from generation to generation. Roughly speaking, for the baby boomers' parents, it's around 60 cents on the dollar; for the baby boomers, about 70-75; for those who reached their 20th birthday in the mid 1980s, about 80-85; and for the youngest workers today, it's reached and passed 95 cents on the dollar.
The momentum does not show significant signs of abating, and it is very close to linear. If extrapolated, based on the figures for these generations drawn from the 1970, 1975, 1980, ..., 2000 compilations, it shows an indication of reaching and exceeding 100 cents on the dollar by around 2010.
The best linear fit done based on the P-60 figures for 1980-2000 (and 2001 and 2002) for those born on or after 1945 included 38 data points and a 90% goodness of fit. The P-60 figures used broke down the 15-25 group into 15-20, 20-25 in 1985, but aggregated them for the other dates. The remaining age groups were segmented into 5 year ranges (25-30, 30-35, etc.). The linear fit has the characteristics
77.01 cents on the dollar in 1995 for someone whose 20th birthday was in 1980
3.26 cents on a dollar decrease per decade, for each generation
8.96 cents on the dollar increase per decade in time of birth
A quadratic fit shows a slight tendency toward levelling off.
Another lesser trend (which may be a product of the small sampling size of the P-60 data for the age group in question and large statistical fluctuations resulting from it) is that there is a noticeable upturn in relative wage equity for the oldest workers, whose 20th birthdays preceded the 1950s. This is not just with respect to generation, as already noted above, but also over time. The 2000 P-60 figures for those who reached 20 before 1950 indicate a relative wage level of about 80 cents on the dollar (but 77 in 2001, 70 in 2002, 65 in 1995).
Based on the P-60 data, the following "dividers" may be noted, based on the current age and the period in question:
For 70 cents on the dollar:
In 1970: ages 30 and below
In 1975, 1980: 25 and below
In 1985, 1990: 30 and below
In 1995: 40 and below
In 2000: 45 and below
(In 2002: 50 and below)
This list excludes those born before 1925, whose members tend to be above the 70 cents on the dollar divider, but where the above-noted fluctuations occur.
For 80 cents on the dollar:
Before 1980: Non-existent
1980, 1985: ages 25 and below
1990: 35 and below
1995, 2000: 30 and below
(In 2001: 35 and below)
For 90 cents on the dollar:
Before 1985: Non-existent
1985: ages 20 and below
1990, 1995, 2000: 25 and below
(In 2001: 30 and below)
The disparity seen in the aggregate (or whatever figure is quoted) is thus seen to arise because the baby boomers and their parents are pulling down the average. However, as they are now reaching retirement age, this masking effect will be removed, and the abrupt transition seen from generation to generation will come to be reflected in a similar abrupt transition in the overall average.75 cents on the dollar
[] edit The Possibility of a Coming Reversal in Gender Wage Gap Inequity
This article . Please by adding . See the for details.may contain or original research unverified claims improve the article references talk page
(June 2008)
Please to use a more . edit it formal, encyclopedic tone (June 2008)
The momentum of the change has been dramatic with the most recent generations. However, a closer look at the figures shows that -- at present -- we are still in the linear region of the transition, with little sign of a slowdown yet. Therefore, the possibility arises that there may actually be a reversal in the coming decades, with women outearning men in the aggregate.
This is the most important aspect of the overall picture missed by the two prevailing points of view. While the discussion continues on why the inequity "still exist", the most recent changes in the world are blindsiding all involved.
A dramatic picture of this change -- particularly how it is being masked under the weight of the baby boomer generation and older world -- is seen in the TV news sector. An aggregate comparison of women's and men's salaries for TV news anchors shows that women are making 38% less than men overall (as of 2000), yet women are outearning men at each age range.
Age Group