Find a Diet Center Near You
 
Enter 5 Digit Zip Code
 >   >  Home Dieting Resources Dieting Articles and Information
Are poor dietary habits resulting in problems of overweight and obesity, a loss of energy or a feeling of always being tired or listless? You will be happy to know that Diet Center can help you lose weight and learn a lifestyle essential to weight maintenance and a strong heart.
Diet Center wants to help increase your knowledge about its healthy weight loss plans and the essential requirements for living a healthy, active and energetic life.
As a , you have access to more than concerning everything from pregnancy to cancer. Learn which foods will provide you the essential vitamins and minerals to work synergistically with our health weight loss plans. We include what exercises are healthy and productive for your body. Search for articles on how to cook great tasting reduced fat and reduced calorie meals. Our articles provide the answers to those questions you were always suspicious of, like does chicken soup really help a cold? member 400 articles
So, whether you want to learn about the composition and effectiveness of healthy weight loss plans, or if you simply want to learn how to use proper nutrition and exercise to help prevent diseases and live a longer healthier life, our articles have the answer. Below are 4 sample articles for you to read.Enjoy!
Healthy Weight Loss Plans are the key to success!
 -  (Article 1) Studies by the National Center for Health Statistics, conducted over the last two decades, show obesity is on the rise. Health risks related to obesity include diabetes type 2, hypertension (high blood pressure), stroke, dyslipidemia (elevation of triglyceride levels and depression of HDL "good" cholesterol levels), cardiovascular disease, gallbladder disease, respiratory disease, some cancers, arthritis and gout. Some Weighty Statistics
Not only does obesity increase an individual's risk for numerous health conditions, it also has emotional and social consequences. A moderate weight loss of 5-10% and maintenance of that weight can improve overall health and well-being and lower the risk for health related problems due to obesity. A moderate weight loss has also been shown to improve mood, self-esteem, self-efficacy (one's perception of their ability to change or perform specific behaviors, such as exercise) and body image.
Tens of millions of Americans are dieting at any given time. To be effective, weight loss should be a multifaceted approach. Changing eating habits, setting reasonable goals, including exercise and changing attitude are vital.
Would You Believe...
The number of overweight people in the U.S. is currently 97 million American adults or 55% of the population (according to the National Institute of Health, June 1998).
The number of overweight Americans increased from 25% to 33% between 1980 and 1991 and to 55% currently.
The percentage of dietary fat American adults consume daily is 34% of their total daily intake.
At any given time, 33-40% of adult American women are trying to lose weight.
At any given time, 20-24% of American men are trying to lose weight.
Nearly 80% of patients with type 2 diabetes are obese.
Annually 300,000 deaths are attributable to poor diet and inactivity.
Obesity related diseases approaches $100 billion dollars annually.
Obesity more than doubles ones chance of developing high blood pressure.
Almost half of breast cancer cases are diagnosed among obese women; and an estimated 42% of colon cancer cases are diagnosed among obese individuals.
Americans spend an additional 33 billion dollars annually on weight reduction products and services.
 -  (Article 2) Exercise plays an important role in achieving and maintaining ideal weight and body composition. At Diet Center, we recognize exercise as a key component of lifestyle change and improved health. Diet Center Programs highly encourage exercise and an active lifestyle. Combining exercise with dieting allows you to lose fat while helping to keep valuable muscle mass. Exercise also helps prevent regaining lost weight. Exercise Really Pays Off!
Experts suggest that a balanced fitness program combining both aerobic and strength training can help provide the safest and most permanent weight loss. Research points to exercise as a direct benefit to the heart. It can lower blood levels of LDL cholesterol (the artery damaging kind), and raise blood levels of HDL cholesterol (the "good" cholesterol). These benefits can be achieved without becoming an "exercise nut." Just beginning a regular walking program can help.
Exercise also improves circulation to the heart, can help lower blood pressure, helps keep blood sugar levels at a more even keel and can help to reduce stress levels. Even if you don't lose pounds by exercising, it can help you lose body fat, inches and sizes.
Without regular exercise, we lose almost one-half pound of muscle every year. So,even we weigh the same at age 40 as we did at age 20, we probably have 10 pounds more fat!
As part of Diet Center's emphasis on moderate exercise as a valuable component of weight loss and health, we offer a series of Fitness Walking Tapes at the beginner, intermediate and advanced levels. Each tape includes warm up and cool down exercises and walking music keyed to a specific number of beats per minute pace. It's easy, fun, and encourages everyone to, "Follow the beat and walk your way to fitness, fun and increased energy!"Follow the Fitness Beat
 -  (Article 3) Four major steps have been identified as ways to prevent high blood pressure: weight control, reduced salt intake, increased exercise, and reduced alcohol consumption. Preventing High Blood Pressure
Being overweight increases the risk of developing high blood pressure by two to six times; in fact, 20-30 percent of hypertension can be attributed to obesity. And Americans are getting fatter! The National Center for Health Statistics recently released data showing that the number of adults who are overweight has increased from one in four to one in three over the past 10 years. The proportion of people who are overweight increases until about age 50 for men and age 70 for women. Upper body fatness in particular raises the risk for high blood pressure. Even modest weight loss helps reduce high blood pressure.Weight.
The most common form of sodium in our diets is salt. Sodium makes up about 40 percent of the salt compound. An easy measure to remember is that one teaspoon of salt contains about 2000 milligrams of sodium. We take in about 2500-5000 milligrams of sodium each day, greatly exceeding our daily minimum requirement of 500 milligrams. The Food and Drug Administration's food labels now list a daily intake of 2400 milligrams of sodium as an optimal level.Sodium.
There are three sources of sodium in the diet: the sodium in the form of salt added to food during cooking and at the table; sodium naturally occurring in food; and sodium added to food during commercial food processing. Most of the sodium by far comes from the third source. Estimates indicate that up to 80 percent of the daily intake of sodium is derived from the consumption of processed foods. Most of the sodium in processed foods is added to preserve or flavor them.
The prevalence of high blood pressure is lower in more physically active or fit adults than in less active individuals. Research shows that the more active a person is, the lower the person's blood pressure. Daily exercise is more effective than exercise performed three times per week. Low to moderate intensity exercise (walking, cycling, dancing, gardening) is as effective as higher intensity exercise in reducing blood pressure.Exercise.
Studies show that three or more drinks per day increase blood pressure. Alcoholic drinks contain calories and can interfere with self-control, proving obstacles to weight loss efforts.Alcohol.
Other nutrients that have been investigated include potassium, calcium and magnesium.Do Other Nutrients Affect Blood Pressure?
Studies show that potassium supplementation may have a role in the prevention of high blood pressure. African-Americans seem to derive particular benefit from potassium supplementation, perhaps due to a deficient potassium intake. Although potassium is not likely to be as important as weight control and reducing sodium intake, nutritionists believe it's a good idea to use potassium supplementation in combination with other strategies. The richest dietary sources of potassium are unprocessed foods, especially fruits, many vegetables and fresh meats.Potassium.
While an increase in dietary calcium may result in a lower blood pressure, the evidence is not conclusive because the results are clouded by other effects such as age, race, sodium intake and alcohol consumption. A prudent approach is to consume the recommended dietary allowance of 800-1200 mg per day. Dairy products are excellent sources of well-absorbed calcium.Calcium.
There's not enough evidence to support the use of magnesium supplementation to prevent high blood pressure. Nutritionists generally advise consuming the recommended dietary allowance of 280 mg for females and 350 mg for males. The highest concentrations of magnesium are found in whole seeds such as nuts, legumes and unmilled grains.Magnesium.
In summary, weight loss, a reduction in sodium intake, daily low to moderate intensity exercise, and avoidance of excessive alcohol consumption appear to be the best approaches to the prevention of high blood pressure. A strong but less conclusive case can be made for potassium supplementation. The evidence is less convincing for supplementation with calcium or magnesium. Finally, know your blood pressure. Be proactive and have your blood pressure checked at least once every two years.
 -  (Article 4) An excerpt from by Douglas Gasner and Elliot H. McCleary offers the following advice for investing in a healthy heart: Investing In a Healthy Heart
by Douglas Gasner and Elliot H. McCleary
The American Medical Association Book of Heart Care
"Have your cholesterol measured if you are worried about heart disease or if you have a family history of heart disease.
"Have your blood pressure checked, and take your pills if your doctor prescribes them.
"Find enough time to exercise.
"Find time to relax.
"Eat moderately from a variety of the four food groups: dairy products; grains and cereals; fruits and vegetables; fish, meat and poultry.
"Go to your physician if you have chest pain or find you are easily or suddenly fatigued.
"Watch your weight.
"Seek medical attention if you sense any disturbance in your heart's rhythm.
"Don't smoke; it robs your heart of oxygen.
"Don't count on magic cures; medical miracles are few and far apart.
"Don't believe that it can't happen to you; statistics don't play favorites.
"Don't ignore your body when there is a change in it; it's trying to tell you something."
To access our archive of over 400 articles, to become a member. click here