Site Map
The Radio Connection is all inclusive--it covers everything you'll need to take and complete the radio DJ, talks show host, sportscasting, program director, voiceover announcing or other course of your choice.  In this day and age of hidden extras, and additional charges for necessary "accessories," we're proud of the fact that the price we quote is the price you pay.  Everything is covered: books, tuition, mentors (private tutors), supplies, lab costs, testing costs, we'll even give you your own website--it's all included.   That's right, there are no hidden costs, surcharges, or required "options".  In fact, because you'll be learning your radio and broadcast skills in a real radio station near where you live, there are no relocation costs like travel, room and board to worry about either.  In fact, the only thing that is not included in our tuition price is your time and effort.  Contrast that with traditional broadcasting schools that do all they can to keep you in the dark about what they cost.  All Radio Connection Students get all of the following included in their program. There are NO hidden costs like book or software fees:
What's Included In Our Tuition Price?
tuition price for our alternative radio and broadcasting school
Here's What's Included In Our Low Tuition Price
You will get your very own mentor who will train you in the radio or broadcasting discipline of your choice, one-on-one in their own radio station. 
You will get our structured course curriculum. A curriculum that was written by real life radio DJs, talk show hosts, voiceover announcers, sportscasters, weather and news reporters, program and promotions directors, etc.
You will get all your books included. No hidden fees for books. We even ship them to you for free.
In addition to your regular mentor you will also get a Student Services Representative assigned to you. Your representative is available to help you with homework, and will be there for you 5 days a week if need be. 
You will also get your very own website as soon as you sign up, plus 6 months of training on how to use the Internet to market yourself and get work. 
You will also receive a course curriculum in Internet Marketing and Self-Promotion. 
You will also be automatically enrolled in our Stay Connected Program. This program helps you to help yourself (if you need it) to find work once you graduate.  You get  one year of help, post graduation, included in your tuition price.
Want A Radio Career? Your First Move Is Apply Here
First Name: