Print this page Email this page
Recently Diagnosed - Type 1 Child
. Suddenly, your world has been turned upside down with injections, concerns about low blood glucose (sugar), and worries about whether or not your child will ever again be able to attend school or spend the night with friends.
You just found out that your child has diabetes
You and your family are no doubt experiencing a range of emotions and have a number of questions. Fear, anger, denial, frustration, depression and uncertainty are just a few of them, and are very common. What will your child tell his or her friends? What will you tell teachers and babysitters? Are there other parents out there who have been through what you are going through? How do they cope?
This area of our Web site can help ease your fears and teach you more about living with diabetes, caring for someone with diabetes, and connect you with others affected by diabetes who will listen and share their own experiences.You are not alone.
Finding out you or someone you love has diabetes is scary. But don't panic. Diabetes is serious, but people with diabetes can live long, healthy, happy lives. The links below will direct you to the best "need to know now" information, expert advice and peer support.
Straight Answers About Type 1 Diabetes
Hearing that your child has diabetes is quite a shock. Find the answers to common basic concerns associated with being recently diagnosed, and learn about diabetes conditions, treatments and complications. Type 1 Diabetes Facts
Alleviate a few of your fears and know the truth about some of the most common myths about diabetes. Diabetes Myths
This section addresses various areas to help you live with type 1 diabetes. What do you do when your child is sick? What do you do when you travel? Can your child get a flu shot with diabetes? How do you cope with having type 1 diabetes? Are you being discriminated against because you have diabetes? You'll find answers to these questions, and more in this section. Common Concerns
Talk to a Friend
The Place for Parents Message Board
"My Son...my 7 1/2 year old little guy...was just diagnosed today with type 1. I'm devastated. I don’t know much about what to expect...the more I read the more frightened and angry I become. 
My son is also very frightened as you might expect. His main concerns are that his life is going to change dramatically..."
Subject: Just Diagnosed Today From: BostonMurray
Find a support group in or near your community, or visit the American Diabetes Association's Message Boards to connect with others who will listen and share their stories and advice. Find a shoulder to cry on, vent your frustrations, and make friends with others who are going through the same struggles you and your child may be experiencing.
Support outside the family is important. Find someone in your area with whom you can talk to about your feelings, fears, and frustrations. Find a community support group
This forum is designed for parents like you to share your challenges and success stories with other parents of children with diabetes. The Place for Parents Message Board
It's essential for people with diabetes to take care of themselves and you'll meet lots of helpful, friendly people here who will help you through it. Recently Diagnosed Message Board
Managing Your Child's Diabetes
Diabetes is not a condition that can be managed alone. Learn more about the first step in ensuring good, up-to-date diabetes care for your child. Getting Good Diabetes Care
Standards of care for children are somewhat different. It is important to work with your child's health care team to manage his or her diabetes. Your Child's Health Care Team - Your First Visit
Learn how to work with your child's school to secure appropriate care and deal with potential issues your child may face in the classroom.  Schools and Diabetes
A diagnosis of diabetes can send shock waves through your entire family. It will take some time for your family to work through all of the emotions engendered by the diagnosis, but it will happen. Dealing with Diabetes
People with diabetes have the same nutritional needs as anyone else. Along with exercise and medications (insulin or oral diabetes pills), nutrition is important for good diabetes control. By eating well-balanced meals in the correct amounts, you can keep your blood glucose level as close to normal (non-diabetes level) as possible. Nutrition & Recipes
Manufactured insulin comes in several types. Each type works at a different pace and most people have to use more than one kind to mimic what their bodies used to do all by themselves. Learn more insulin, giving injections, insulin delivery systems, troubleshooting and more. Insulin & Medications
Feeling overwhelmed by all that new medical jargon? What is the honeymoon phase? What are ketones? What is A1C? Here you will find a list of diabetes-related terms and their definitions. Diabetes Dictionary
Wizdom is the American Diabetes Association's informational and entertaining kit of wit and wisdom for kids with diabetes and their families. Each kit contains activities, games, and two books -- one for kids and one for parents -- each with everything you need to know to get started managing diabetes. Order Your Free Wizdom Kit
For Kids & Teens
Kids, check out this Web site especially for you! Here you'll find all kinds of great stuff to help you manage your diabetes as well as fun interactive games, tips, and links. Learn more about dealing with common issues and connect with other young people affected by diabetes. For Kids - Youth Zone
All teens face challenges and have to make decisions about dating, driving, and alcohol, among other things. Teens with diabetes face the same choices as their friends. Here's a rundown of some common teen issues and how diabetes may affect them. For Teens
Teenagers and young adults with diabetes have unique issues. This is a place to discuss those issues and to share solutions. Sometimes it's just a place to vent. Teens and Young Adults Message Board
Additional Resources
This area of diabetes.org covers the basics of diabetes treatment, as well as issues you may experience in the months and years ahead. It's not meant to replace advice and education from your child's health care team. Rather, use this as a reference as you begin your diabetes journey. For Parents & Kids Section
With you can gain valuable insights into the 7 things every parent should do for their child and help your child live life like other kids. For more books on parenting, click . Further Reading...
Real Life Parenting of Kids with Diabetes here
Our PODs provide detailed information on specific topics, from surviving sick days to recordkeeping. Download specific pieces, print them out, or save them to your computer. Print-On-Demand (PODs)
This supplement to the Association's Magazine, , is a comprehensive guide to diabetes products and services to help you get the most out of your child's diabetes care. 2006 Resource Guide