is a one-act , comic , with German libretto by and music by .Bastien und Bastienne(Bastien and Bastienne) singspiel opera Friedrich Wilhelm Weiskern Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
was one of Mozart's earliest operas, written in 1768 when he was only twelve years old. It was allegedly commissioned by Viennese physician and 'magnetist' Dr. (who himself would later be parodied in ) as a satire of the 'pastoral' genre then prevalent, and specifically as a parody of the opera by . After its supposed premiere in Mesmer's garden theater (that is only corroborated by an unverified account of ), it was not revived again until 1890. It was first performed on October 2, 1890 at Architektenhaus in Berlin .Bastien und Bastienne Anton Mesmer Cosi Fan Tutte Le Devin du Village Jean-Jacques Rousseau Nissen [1]
By a curious coincidence, the opening melody of the overture is almost identical to that of Beethoven's . However, as the piece lay unperformed until long after that symphony was written, this appears to be chance rather than plagiarism. The melody is based entirely on the three notes of the major triad, a common technique in the classical era used to establish the tonality of a piece. Third Symphony, the Eroica
Although he was very young, Mozart already had excellent vocal writing skills and a knack for parody and whimsy which would reach full flower in his later works. is however the easiest-to-perform of Mozart's juvenile works.Bastien und Bastienne
Contents
Premiere Cast, October 2, 1890 (Conductor: - )
Bastienne,a shepherdess
Place: A pastoral village
Time: Indeterminate
Bastienne, a shepherdess, fears that her "dearest friend", Bastien, has forsaken her for another pretty face, and decides to go into the pasture to be comforted by her flock of lambs.
Before she can leave, however, she runs into Colas, the village soothsayer. Bastienne requests the help of his magical powers to help win back her Bastien. Colas (being a soothsayer) knows all about the problem, and comforts her with the knowledge that Bastien has not abandoned her, rather, he's merely been distracted lately by 'the lady of the manor'. His advice is to act coldly towards Bastien, which will make him come running back.
Bastien is heard approaching, so Bastienne hides herself. Bastien swaggers in, proclaiming how much he loves Bastienne. Colas informs him that Bastienne has a new lover. Bastien is shocked and asks the magician for help.
Colas opens his book of spells and recites a nonsense aria filled with random syllables and Latin quotations. Colas declares the spell a success and that Bastienne is in love with Bastien once more. Bastienne, however, decides to keep up the game a bit longer and spurns Bastien with great vehemence. Bastien threatens suicide, which Bastienne merely shrugs off.
Finally, the two decide that they've gone far enough and agree to reconcile. Colas joins them as they all sing a final trio in praise of the magician.
"Befraget mich ein zartes Kind" - Colas
"Diggi, daggi, shurry, murry" - Colas
"Er war mir sonst treu und ergeben" - Bastienne
"Geh'! du sagst mir eine Fabel" - Bastien
"Grossen Dank dir abzustatten" - Bastien
"Ich geh' jetzt auf die Weide" - Bastienne
"Mein liebster Freund" - Bastienne
"Meiner Liebsten sch ne Wangen" - Bastien
"Wenn mein Bastien einst im Scherze" - Bastienne
"W rd'ich auch wie manche Buhlerinnen" - Bastienne
W.A. Mozart: , , 422 527-2, 1991Bastien und BastiennePhilips
W.A. Mozart: , , 45855, 1990Bastien und BastienneSony
W.A. Mozart: , , 5755562, 2005 (2 CDs)Bastien und BastienneEmi Classics
W.A. Mozart: , , C705061BBastien und BastienneOrfeo
W.A. Mozart: , , NUO7344Bastien und BastienneNuova Era
W.A. Mozart: , , 00440 073 4244, 2006 (1 DVD)Bastien und BastienneDeutsche Grammophon