"Quonset" redirects here. For the peninsula in Rhode Island, USA, see . Quonset Point
Quonset huts in front of Laguna Peak, , in 1946.
Point Mugu
A Quonset hut being put in place at the 598th Engineer Base Depot in Japan, post-WWII
A is a lightweight prefabricated structure of having a semicircular cross section. The design was based on the developed by the British during . The name comes from their site of first manufacture, , at the Davisville Naval Construction Battalion Center in (a village located within the town of , ).Quonset hut corrugated galvanised iron Nissen hut World War I Quonset Point Davisville North Kingstown Rhode Island
In 1941 the needed an all-purpose, lightweight building that could be shipped anywhere and assembled without skilled labor. The George A. Fuller construction company was selected to manufacture them. The first was produced within 60 days of contract award. United States Navy
The original design was a 16 by 36 ft (5 by 11 m) structure framed with steel members with an 8 ft (2.4 m) radius. The sides were corrugated steel sheets. The two ends were covered with plywood, which had doors and windows. The interior was insulated and had pressed wood lining and a wood floor. The building could be placed on concrete, on pilings, or directly on the ground with a wood floor.
The most common design created a standard size of 20 by 48 ft (6 by 15 m) with 10 ft (3 m) radius, allowing 720 square feet (67 m ) of usable floor space, with optional four-foot overhangs at each end for protection of entrances from the weather. Other sizes were developed, including 20 by 40 ft (6 by 12 m) and 40 by 100 ft (12 by 30 m) warehouse models.
The flexible interior space was open, allowing for use as , , offices, medical and dental offices, isolation wards, housing, and bakeries. barracks latrines
Between 150,000-170,000 Quonset huts were manufactured during World War II. After the war, the U.S. military sold the surplus Quonset huts to the public for $1,000 each. Many are still standing throughout the United States, primarily used for commercial buildings (especially ). Army surplus stores