Mark Humbert, presentation editor
Jan. 6, 2009No Comment
It seemed natural to me, when I was 9 or 10 years old, to document  in print  the world around me. After all, the Cold War and space race were in full tilt and my friend Norman and I had become imaginary players in it, divided by the pavement of East 12th Place.
When we alternately tossed stuffed toys as high as we could throw them to try to mimic Allen Shepard’s suborbital space flight, I wrote an account of the results, with comments from each of us, complete with headline and illustration/diagram of the efforts in the manner of our hometown daily, the Gary Post-Tribune. Our names had been in the paper in late 1960 after we co-signed a letter to outgoing President Dwight D. Eisenhower wishing him luck in his new life out of office.
I hadn’t realized how important newspapers were in my life back then, until I was asked if I wanted to write one of these brief bios. In fact, newspapers were my window on the worlds I inhabited, whether it was local or national politics, the Chicago White Sox/Baltimore Orioles (the teams on which Luis Aparacio played) and what NASA was doing. Radio played a role in my other love, music, but newspapers still played a role in tracking the lives of the Beatles. And I wrote.
I thought it was a huge compliment when my mom told me, “You don’t mince words,” as she read a composition I wrote in grade school. It was the phrase that described a Chicago Tribune columnist in a radio ad. At the time, for me, the Trib was the pinnacle of writing. My first paying gig was at age 15 with the Portage Wave, the paper in the community where I lived during my high school years. I wrote about youth baseball and high school sports, then later city government. About the same time I was working on the school yearbook staff and, occasionally for the school paper. By then I had vowed that I would not have my name misspelled in the paper again (as one local paper had done about a year earlier when I had the top score in the freshman class on the Time current events quiz  only a senior had scored higher).
My senior year I covered city government for two weeklies  the Herald Newspapers chain (with a Portage edition) and the Wave, then went to work exclusively for the Wave as its city editor, and did page layout and paste-up as well. I worked every summer at newspapers except my first college summer (U.S. Steel). I started my summer at the Vidette-Messenger (Valparaiso, Ind.) after a two-week congressional internship in Washington, D.C. I was managing editor, then editor of my college paper (the Bachelor) and People editor of the yearbook (The Wabash) in college and started my daily newspaper career in Valparaiso upon graduation.
In Valpo, I was police reporter and, briefly, county reporter before becoming news editor. I covered several boards and commissions, wrote and edited sports. I founded the Valparaiso Popcorn Festival in 1979. The Southwest lured me in late 1980 to the Albuquerque Journal copy desk, where I worked in news, sports and with the Northern Bureau. In 1986 I left to become managing editor of the Los Alamos Monitor (which meant I wrote, edited, designed pages, made assignments, prepared monthly special sections and supervised the news/photo staff). Sometimes I helped the pressmen and once or twice I even delivered papers. At every step you get to meet the community, your readers.
Colorado summoned in 1992, when I joined the staff of the Loveland Reporter-Herald as a design editor and, later, local news editor and senior reporter/interactive coordinator. I joined the Rocky in 1997 as a copy editor in news. Since then I have worked in sports and features and am now called a presentation editor. I still write occasionally.
One of the great things about newspaper work is that at every stop you meet and work with bright people. And when you get to the top of your profession as the Rocky is in Colorado, you find you are in league with the brightest people in the community.
Community is a key in journalism, even in the electronic age. I have tried to be a part of every community where I’ve lived, and have spent the past almost nine years becoming a part of Brighton. My wife and I contribute our time and efforts in many ways, having organized the Help for Homes painting days since 2006, awarding a writing scholarship to a Brighton High School student, and contributing funds to local nonprofits. We also help keep our own community informed.
The Rocky has provided me with a good job, and therefore the resources to do some of those things, and sharp, smart people who stimulate my own thinking.
Testimonials
More testimonials
What you can do to help
listed below to ask that Department of Justice ensure that this process adheres to the spirit and the letter of theSend a letter to a member Colorado's congressional delegation Newspaper Preservation Act.
reminding them how much you value your newspaper.Send a letter to the members on the board of E.W. Scripps
, send us an e-mail or a letter telling us what the loss of the Rocky Mountain News would mean to you.Leave a comment on any of our blog posts
a newspaper.Buy