close X
Cheap Broadband
Are you searching the web for ? Look no further than I-Soft Net. We have a holistic range of internet, networking and hosting products to suit your needs and your budget. Enter our website - to make your cheap broadband selection today.cheap broadband
About I-Soft Net
We were founded in 1999, and since that time have provided a complete range of internet, e-commerce, application and consulting services to our customers. We provide personal customer service and expert advice. Contact us today. Find at I-Soft Net.cheap broadband
What do we offer?
At I-Soft Net, hosting (i.e. website hosting, server hosting, and domain registration), design (i.e. Website Design and Development, Search Engine Optimisation, and E-Commerce), networking solutions (i.e. bandwidth management & firewalls and servers), Internet services (i.e. dial up, Leased Line, ISDN, ADSL, Email, Anti Virus, SMS, and Fax2Email), Self Help, as well as a cheap broadband are all available right from our website.
Types of Cheap Broadband
At I-Soft Net, you can select either Super Fast ADSL or Unshaped ADSL Accounts, which is faster and has less latency. You can choose a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 30 gigabyte (GB) cheap broadband connection.
We also offer you a free ADSL stats analyser, where you can track the statistics of your cheap broadband. Cheap broadband is made easy at I-Soft Net, with plenty of flexibility and choice to suit each individual client.
Wireless ISP
If you are looking for a wireless ISP, then look no further. We support both landline and wireless systems. When you need a wireless ISP for support, then we are available. Sign up for wireless broadband, and get the benefits of using your laptop to surf the net by the pool or check your email in front of television. Get cheap broadband from your wireless ISP.
High speed business internet
Do you want Superfast or Unshaped high speed business internet for your company? I-Soft Net offers Super Fast or Unshaped ADSL for your office. This will allow you to conduct your business activities - that involve internet communication - quickly and efficiently. Ordering high speed business internet from I-Soft Net has never been easier. Just browse through our website and click the order button - and select the option that suits you. High speed business internet has never been this simple.
What else does I-Soft Net offer?
Get collocation server services, best internet prices, best web site design, isp wireless, custom web design, cheap broadband wireless, affordable hosting web, internet access, internet isp service provider, DSL isp, web filtering, from a web site design firm and internet service provider.
 
Head Office 16 Napier Street Cape Town South Africa Tel: 0861 ISOFTADSL (0861 476382)
Gauteng I-Fusion House Waterfall Park Bekker Street, Midrand Tel: 0861 ISOFTADSL (0861 476382)
Port Elizabeth P.O. Box 2998 Northend 6056 Tel: 0861 ISOFTADSL (0861 476382)
KwaZulu Natal P.O. Box 588 Hillcliff 3610 Tel: 0861 ISOFTADSL (0861 476382)
 