Contact Me
(from ) "Low back pain is usualy caused when a ligament or muscle holding a vertebra in its proper position is strained. Vertebrae are bons that make up the spinal column through which the spinal cord passes. When tese muscles or ligaments become weak, the spine loses its stability, resulting in pain. Because nerves reach all parts f the body from the spinal cord, back problems can lead to pain or weakness in almost any part of the body. Low back pain can occur if your job involves lifting and carrying heavy objects, or if you spend a lot of time sitting or standing in one position or bending over. It can be caused by a fall or by unusually strenuous exercise. It can be brought on by the tension and stress that cause headaches in some people. It can even be brought on by violent sneezing or coughing."
Back pain facts
Other injuries
Back pain
This is most difficult problem, demanding more attention than any other injury. It is often the result of poor posture, inactivity and weakness in the back region. Sprains and strains are most common and usually self-resolve in one to six weeks. Localized back pain is generally more benign pain than that which radiates to one or both legs. Examination by a sports medicine physician is generally recommended if the latter pain continues or if it lasts beyond three to four weeks. Conditions such as disc herniation, spinal stenosis, sciatica, and other not yet diagnosed conditions require advanced investigations and management.
Stress injuries (and fractures)
Weakened bones and abnormal mechanics contribute to the stress fractures of the foot, leg, hip, and back. One cause is poor mineralization of the bone due to lack of calcium. I cannot stress enough the importance of calcium in the diet.
Elbow pain
A very common condition  two types are noted. One is on the outer aspect of the elbow, which is so called tennis elbow. This is usually due to the strain on the extensor muscles radiating up to the elbow. The other is an inner part of the arm, which is subjected to the similar pain from the medial aspect and the flexor muscles of the arm. These are known as lateral and medial epicondylitis and as mentioned are very common. These are due to strains due to excess muscle contraction in the forearm as a rule. The tendon is notably weakened and becomes a chronic problem.
Dr. Christopher Woollam, M.D.