[] edit Scripture
While falling within the strict definition of literature, is not generally considered literature. However, the Bible has been treated and appreciated as literature; the in particular has long been considered a masterpiece of English prose, whatever may be thought of its religious significance. Several retellings of the Bible, or parts of the Bible, have also been made with the aim of emphasising its literary qualities. The Bible King James Version
[] edit Christian non-fiction
Letters, theological treatises and other instructive and devotional works have been produced by Christian authors since the times of Jesus. For early Christian times almost all writing would be non-fiction, including letters, biblical commentaries, doctrinal works and . See . hagiography Patristics
Since the invention of the printing press non-fictional literature has been used for the dissemination of the Christian message, and also for disseminating different viewpoints within Christianity. The (a small pamphlet containing an explanation of some point, or an appeal to the reader) was in use at the time of the and continues to be used as a part of . tract Reformation proselytization
[] edit Christian fiction
Christian fiction is sometimes harder to define than Christian non-fiction. Christian themes are not always explicit. There is sometimes argument as to whether the works of a Christian author are necessarily Christian fiction. For example while there are undoubted Christian themes within , many would not consider this to be a work of Christian fiction. For many centuries fiction has been written based on Christian ideas. Early examples include , and . The Lord of the Rings Paradise Lost Dante's Inferno The Pilgrim's Progress
More modern examples include the works of , and . G. K. Chesterton George Macdonald C.S. Lewis
In the last few decades the existence of a Christian subculture, particularly in North America, has given rise to a specific genre of , written by and for Christians and generally with explicit Christian themes. Such novels are often marketed exclusively to Christians and sold in Christian bookshops. The honour excellence in this genre. Christian novel Christy Awards
In the late 20th century, with the rise of the in American society, Christian-themed fiction has thrived. Examples include the works of , , , , and . Christian Right Tim LaHaye Jerry B. Jenkins Frank Peretti Ted Dekker Randy Alcorn Janette Oke
Within the field of Christian fiction smaller niche markets have emerged aimed at specific denominations, notably and . There are also Christian fiction that is aimed a wider mainstream audiences such as the best selling series. Catholic Fiction Latter Day Saints Fiction Left Behind