Looking For Tattoo Designs, Ideas, Pictures?
Congratulations! Your Search Is Over...
Probably the best online tattoo gallery. 1000s of great quality tattoo designs. Check them out now!
How to Get the Right Ideas for Tattoos
Are you still not getting the right ideas for tattoos? The process could be a long journey for anyone, with all the wonderful choices around you. However, making the right choice for your tattoo should be simple and quick, only if you have the proper guidelines in selecting one. You can start by thinking about your primary reason for ...
Chopper Tattoo - Smart Reasons to Get an Award-winning Tattoo Design
Have you heard of Chopper Tattoo? If you are a novice on the field, you may have encountered the name at some point but never bothered really to take consideration of it. Whilst it does not sound too familiar for you, for professional tattoo artists and lovers, Chopper-Tattoo.com is the largest provider of tattoo designs on the web. ...
How to Buy Tattoo Designs  Without Regretting It!
When you plan to buy tattoo designs, there are certain guidelines that you need to rely onto to make it sure that your purchase is worth it after all. Besides, tattoo is not simply a form of attraction to our bodies but rather an intricate expression of the totality of one self. Buying on instinct is definitely not ...
Wolf Tattoos
Thinking of Getting a Wolf Tattoo? Wolf tattoos are no strangers in the tattoo design world. The reason for this is that wolf tattoos symbolize so many traits, both positive and negative, making them flexible symbols  perfect for a tattoo design. The wolf is a very adaptable design as it can mean both ferocious and mothering. It ...
Maori Tattoos
What are Maori tattoos? One of the many types of tattoos that are gaining much popularity nowadays is Maori tattoos. These types of tattoos consist of bold lines and geographical patterns which are prevalent in the culture of the Maori people in New Zealand where these designs are originally found. They are usually placed on the face to signify ...
Kanji Tattoos
Choosing Kanji Tattoos Kanji tattoos are very popular now. They are actually considered as one of the most common tattoos chosen by individuals who wanted to get tattoos for themselves. However, in choosing kanji tattoos, it is very important to familiarize yourself with how the kanji characters are used to express ideas. Some people think that they ...
Flame Tattoos
What do Flame Tattoos Mean? Flame tattoos can symbolize many things such as change, destruction, passion, light, sin, temptation, and wisdom. Sometimes, meanings are contradicting. You can find flame designs and symbolisms in various religious ceremonies and rituals and in mythologies. Here are some of the most popular meanings of flame tattoos.     Christianity uses flames in ...
Turtle Tattoos
Turtle Tattoos  Some Facts Behind The Popular Idea Of all the animals, turtles are considered to be one of the slowest in terms of moving around. This makes them ideal symbols of patience and steadfastness amidst all the problems and challenges that may occur in life. This is why turtle tattoos are often chosen by people who want ...
Lion Tattoos
Meanings of Lion Tattoos Many stories, legends, and movies portray lions as kings of the jungle that are strong and fierce. Lions are feared by other animals and humans as well. They also have the capability to protect their kingdom or the forest among enemies, which also shows lions as great leaders. These are some of the ...
Daisy Tattoos
Here Comes the Time of Daisies Roses tend to be so common nowadays; tulips can be sometimes too sophisticated. If youre a woman whos trying to find the perfect flower tattoo that will match your perky personality then you may want to take a closer look at daisy tattoos. Just like any other flower tattoos, daisy tattoos have distinctive ...
Eagle Tattoos
Eagle Tattoos and Their Meanings Among the hundreds of species of birds on earth, eagle is probably the most popular bird in tattoo art. Eagle tattoos are considered as male tattoos. Having eagle tattoos is not just drawing a large bird on your body. Eagle tattoos actually mean several things. For instance, in mythology and symbols of ancient ...
Cat Tattoo Designs
The most important part of having a tattoo done lies in choosing the right tattoo design for you. There is a wide range of tattoos for you to choose from where you have to make your decision based on your nature, your perception to life, your likes and dislikes or as a means of showing your affection to another. You have a choice from animal ...
American Tattoo Designs
Deciding to get a tattoo is only part of the dilemma one faces when one opts to have a tattoo. The other part lies in choosing the right tattoo design for the tattoo. If you are a patriot of America and its ideals, then it proves best to show off your pride in the country by having an American tattoo. Patriotic themes are the best choices ...
Snakes Tattoos
There is a whole world of tattoo designs for you to choose from if you decide to wear a tattoo. You can choose tattoos from the world of animals, birds, insects, special things and from the world of reptiles. Of the lot, many people like having snake tattoos placed on their bodies. These snake tattoos are generally found in the creepy crawly design category ...
Old School Tattoo Designs
Tattoos are actually a form of dermal pigmentation where a design is imprinted in the skin by inserting a pigment into the skin. Tattoos are made on both animals and humans; it is used in animals for identification purposes while it is made on humans as a form of body modification and a form of identification of a person. There are different types of tattoos available ...
Bird Tattoo Designs
A tattoo is a great way of projecting your individuality and personality to the outside world. A tattoo tells others lots about your nature and approach to life. This is why it is important that lots of thought is placed on choosing the right tattoo design for yourself. You can choose tattoo designs based on animals, birds, snakes or some other signs through which is it ...
Zodiac Tattoos: Eternal Visions of Tattoos
The zodiac signs&the eternal symbolism of how man wants to take control of his own destiny. The irony though is tat he seeks the guidance of supernatural concepts. In our age of rational thinking and scientific-based concepts, it is still a great riddle why people entertain anything that works otherwise. It is possibly inherent in man that he ...
Tribal Tattoo Designs: Tracing Back the Origins
With all the cultures that the world once nursed, nurses and will eventually nurse. With all the traditions it sees, has seen and will never see again. With all the civilizations that threaded its earth. All those that have left tokens of remembrance of their existence and those that did not. It is almost impossible that she was not able ...
Rediscovering Tribal Tattoos
Man by nature, is extremely creative. It is probably his instinct to modify, accentuate and to make something artistic from a rather plain and bare skin. I guess, that provides an explanation. But we're not done yet. The beginnings of humanity marked his earliest conquest to capture art into more tangible form. Like the Creator who Himself is creative ...
The Symbolism of Tiger Tattoos
Ever since the book The Da Vinci Code came out, people have begun to show an increased interest in the different meanings and symbolisms behind images they see in their everyday lives. It is no mystery that we humans love to use different images in order to convey hidden meanings to the world. We love the use of ...
Hawaiian Tattoo Designs
Hawaii is known for its beautiful flowers, towering palm trees and the peaceful tranquility of the ocean surrounding each of the seven Hawaiian islands.  In an effort to permanently enjoy the paradise that Hawaii offers, many opt for Hawaiian tattoos either for their heritage or in remembrance of that perfect vacation that they wish to forever carry with them. Hawaiian tattoos are that which symbolizes the paradise ...
Foot Tattoo Designs
In general, foot tattoos are most commonly found on women.  They can range anywhere from a four-leaf clover and a rose to a heart or a butterfly.  Any symbol that is small enough to be applied to the foot can be used as foot tattoos.  ...
Flower Tattoos Meaning
Although not uncommon for the male population, flower tattoos are most popular among women.  Their colorful and sometimes dainty appearance lends to their appeal by females.  The majority of people choose to select flower tattoos according to the meaning of certain flowers.  Therefore, its not a waste of time to do some research before ...
Rose Tattoos Meaning
One of the most popular and symbolic tattoos offered is that of a rose.  Many people may think of a rose as being a tattoo for women only, but that is not the case.  Because a rose can either be made into a feminine or masculine design, it is one of the most universal tattoos ...
Aztec Tattoos FAQ
Q: Are Aztec tattoos more expensive than other kinds? A: Not necessarily.  Just because a specific tattoo is more rare than others does not mean that it will be more expensive to apply.  The actual rates are more likely to be based on the size and complexity of the design rather than its popularity. Q: If my tattoo artist does not have any samples of Aztec tattoos, is ...
Temporary Tattoo: When You Want No Permanence
The only permanent thing in this world is change&so said a philosopher. Well, this philosophy perhaps applies for tattoos too. Once the property of specific skin section is altered, there is no way to reverse the condition. It is changed forever. And this occurs exactly for permanent tattoos. Tattoos are meant to make permanent marks into human skin ...
Tattoo Supply: Is it Safe?
Back in the olden days, tattoos were fondly used by the natives to emphasize their skill in creating ornaments for their bodies. They were typically of the tribal designs. Tattoos are in reality artistically crafted. Intricate designs, shapes, and figures are associated with the tattoo procedure. There also came the notion that tattooed individuals are those whove had their own ...
You Know You Have Your Options in Tattoo Removal
So you didn't listen when your mom told you that one day you will regret that your skin has been inked? And now, you might be one of the many who is deeply contemplating on the removal of your tattoo. This is a truth: regardless of the design, size or artistry of your tattoo, once the pigment is punched ...
What to Watch Out in a Tattoo Parlor
Tattoo, being an art practiced for ages now, should be a perfect art that must not bring you dissatisfaction. Its existence is thought to have lasted for 5 000 years since its early beginnings. And its practice is extensively known among varied cultures. In the east, the custom of tattooing is thought to have started from the Ainu ...
About Tattoo Machine
What You Should Know About Tattoo Machine The decision of getting a tattoo is an important endeavor to consider. It is intended to live for a long time on your skin. Therefore, you must not jump on the thought of getting a tattoo if you have not taken things into serious consideration. You do not surely want to deal ...
How to Choose a Tattoo Image
There are a lot of tattoo images available out there. Humanitys natural love for artistic expression prompts them to make use of even their bodies to declare their personalities. What should you consider in choosing a tattoo image? Here are some tips: 1. Interests  In choosing a tattoo image, you need to think about getting one ...
So What's Your Idea of a Tattoo?
It all starts with an idea. Art did. Art is a tangible product of an mental image of something. And tattoo, being a practiced art, needs to have a constant supply of ideas. The good news is man, by nature is a creative being. He is able to produce new concepts every now and then. And all his ...
Tattoo Designs Choice
Tattoo Designs: The Choice is Solely Yours How does it feel like to be tattooed? It is painful, alright. After all it is an art. Art needs emotions (which presumably cover pain!) to bring out the best from an art piece. The money aside, pain in tattooing is part of the investment. And depending on the design of ...
Tattoo Removal and Health Risks
Removal and Health Risks of Tattoo and Piercing Practices It only takes hours or even minutes for one to complete a tattoo and piercing process but be sure that once you have decided to adopt the art, you are not doubtful of your decision even by a grain. Invest plenty of time considering your choices and know what it ...
Say It All With A Tattoo
As many of you might have presumed by now, tattoo is actually a practice that have endured both time and criticism. We don't know exactly how many years or centuries the world has wakened into tattooed body parts. But the earliest that we can note by now (for which other resources may contend otherwise) is the remains of the ...
Sun Tattoos Meaning
The sun is, in any culture, one of the highest regarded symbols of humanity. In any mythology, you will find that the sun is depicted as one of the highest in a pantheon of gods. The sun gives light, heat and life. Ancient civilizations revered it as a symbol of fertility, vitality, and every other quality that gives ...
Where to Find Polynesian Tattoo Galleries
Lately interests in Polynesian tattoos have increased. People turn to Polynesian tattoo galleries and designs because of the fact that they are steeped in tradition and lore. The designs of Polynesian tattoos also look cool, allowing people to interpret their symbolism a number of different ways. So, are you interested in getting a Polynesian tattoo? Well, you ...
Japanese Tattoo
Japanese Tattoo: Looking Into its Artistic Craftsmanship People may get varied notions when it comes to the use and exposition of tattoos. But then todays contemporary age sees tattoos as more accepted forms of body art. In fact, the use of tattoos on any part of the human body is now held to be extra popular. Individuals ...
Henna Tattoo: When You're a Bit Doubtful
Thinking of reconsidering yet you still can't fight the urge to be "cool like everyone else"? Well, you are fortunate to have an option that will help set your mind when it comes to tattooing. Why not try henna tattoo. Don't be confused. While most of us know that henna is simply henna tattoo, it would be good to ...
All About Heart Tattoos
Heart tattoos are one of the most popular tattoo designs. They are either placed on the arms, wrists, lower part of the leg, or on the chest. Heart tattoos on the chest of the women are said to create a sexier image. For several decades in a row, tattoo enthusiasts never seem to forget the real message conveyed by heart ...
Foot Tattoo: Tips and Designs
It is very common for everyone to see a relative, officemate, classmate, and friend who sport the latest tattoo on his or her chest, arms, and foot. Mind you, tattoos are not only for men. Several daring women also get their skins imprinted with attractive tattoo designs. The washable henna tattoo is commonly adhered to by those who simply like ...
Dragon Tattoo- Your Choices From East to West
The dragon, more popularly seen as a strange reptile that is fond of abducting damsels, breathing fire and mercilessly killing knights, and not to say hoarding treasures had been a part of human culture. For thousands of years, this mythical creature had been the subject of human curiosity and his adoration for art. And while they are often portrayed in ...
Cross Tattoo
Cross Tattoo: a Reflection of Art and the Symbol of Your Faith A cross. The symbol of power and spiritual beliefs. For centuries, the cross had been the symbol of faith in the Catholic world. It was adopted to be the eternal symbolism of their belief on the Christ who died and lifted the world from all its ...
Reveal More Than Mere Art with Celtic Tattoos
The Celts never wrote their history, except only when the Greek and Roman civilizations penetrated their culture and introduced a formal form of writing. Yet in the remainder of their golden age, art and literature that they nourished were transferred orally from one generation to the next. They were fierce warriors, great artists, uphold extreme faith with gods ...
Choosing a Back Tattoo
Back tattoos are probably the best kind of tattoos around. And it is very popular too. Added to this factor, the even surface of the human back also counts as a plus in the aesthetic value of back tattoos. There are two things you need to consider in getting a back tattoo: symbolism and aesthetics. Symbolism - ...
Angel Tattoos
Angel Tattoos- What Do These Images Represent? Images of angels have filled man's art since no one knows exactly when. But the renaissance seem to have given much emphasis on this heavenly depictions that have made angels popular as the winged creatures hovering the earth to provide protection against evil elements. Atleast, that is our general image of ...
Feminine Tattoos
For the woman who wants a delicate image permanently inked into her skin, feminine tattoos may be just the ticket.  Simply put, feminine tattoos are gender specific and are usually of a more dainty nature because they are designed with a woman in mind.  Small hearts, butterflies and other similar images are all popular examples of what many women choose ...
African Tattoo
Whether it's because of heritage or appreciation of the culture, many tattoo lovers are choosing to purchase an African tattoo.  With it's climate ranging from tropical to cold and an abundance of wildlife, there is no shortage of image possibilities. If you love animals, an African tattoo could be that of a lion, which symbolizes power and strength.  Giraffes, ...