9
1. Introduction
The Nile is one of the world’s greatest riches and is of inestimable value for its peoples – a resource which needs to be held in trust for future generations. Sustainable development and management of the Nile Basin presents a great challenge and there remain many opportunities for growth and development for the future, bringing the promise of regional harmony and economic development. At the heart of this challenge is the imperative to eradicate poverty. Without action today, the riparian countries will face many problems including famine, extreme poverty, environmental degradation and rapid population growth. This is a clear challenge for the peoples of the Basin and calls for vision and leadership.
The purpose of this brief document is to set out policy guidelines for taking the strategic action which is necessary to realize the potential of the Nile for the good of all. The time has come to move from planning to action.
2. Objectives
The objectives are:
To develop the water resources of the Nile Basin in a sustainable and equitable way to ensure prosperity, security and peace for all its peoples.
To ensure efficient water management and the optimal use of the resources.
To ensure cooperation and joint action between the riparian countries, seeking win-win gains.
To target poverty eradication and promote economic integration.
To ensure that the program results in a move from planning to action.
3. The Shared Vision
To achieve sustainable socio-economic development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources.
: An important approach to cooperative action within a basin-wide framework is the principle of subsidiarity: to take decisions at the lowest appropriate level, to facilitate the development of real action on the ground.Cooperative action
4. The Strategic Action Program
The strategic action program comprises two complementary sub-programs. These promote the Shared Vision and realize the vision through action on the ground – see Figure 1.
While the Shared Vision is being developed and promoted at the basin-wide level, building commitment and clear goals, it needs to filter down to the country and local level. However, the Shared Vision cannot stand alone; it has to be nourished and fed by actions on the ground - actions which meet the needs of the people and build trust and confidence amongst the riparian countries. Action on the ground will take place at local, national and sub basin levels, and will integrate upwards within a basin-wide framework.
Figure 1: Strategic Action
Program for the Nile
The "Shared Vision Program"comprises a limited range of essential but effective activities to create a coordination mechanism and an "enabling environment" for the implementation of the shared vision through action on the ground.
"Subsidiary Action Programs"plan and implement action on the ground at the lowest appropriate level, taking into account benefits and effects of planned activities on other countries.
5. Shared Vision Program
The main task of the shared-vision program will be the creation of an for investments and action on the ground, within a basin-wide framework. This program will promote the shared vision through a limited, but effective, set of basin-wide activities and projects.enabling environment
The "Shared Vision Program" illustrated in Figure 2 (and further explained in Annex 1), comprises 5 broad themes, as follows:
Cooperative Framework (Project D3, ongoing) [B]
Confidence building and stakeholder involvement [C]
Socio-economic, environmental and sectoral analyses [D]
Development and investment planning [E]
Applied training [F]
The Shared Vision (A) will be underpinned by a cooperative framework (B). The ongoing Cooperative Framework Project D3, supported by UNDP, is building such a regional framework. Supporting this ‘roof,’ are four major basin-wide tasks (C-F) which are the ‘pillars’ of a basin-wide shared vision program. Other activities will be added as they are needed and agreed upon. All activities within these tasks have a major capacity building component and contribute to human resources development within the basin - this provides the ‘foundation’ of the proposed program (G)
Figure 3 outlines the project cycle for the Shared Vision Program.
Figure 3: Shared Vision Program Project Cycle
Establishment of working groups by Nile-TAC
/font>