Prices for our services are displayed to you before you pay for your purchase. Any changes to our prices will also be displayed on our website.
Prices for Yahoo! Mail Plus can be found here
Prices for Personals Subscription can be found . here
Prices for Mobile Text Alerts can be found : here
Prices for Mobile Ringtone Subscription can be found here:
Billing
We accept payment by debit card (Switch / Solo) and credit card (Visa, MasterCard and American Express). We take debit and credit card payments automatically every billing cycle. Your billing cycle will vary depending on which subscription package you choose, e.g., 3 months or 12 months.
Billing itemisation Invoices are available online at . On that page, you will find the following information: https://billing.yahoo.com
        /b> the subscription plan that you have selected
        /b> the price that you have paid
         /b> when you will next be billed
Disconnection for non-payment
For Mail Extra Storage - If your credit card is invalid for any reason or Yahoo! does not receive payment for the service, we will downgrade your mailbox to the storage size of a free Yahoo! mailbox.
For Personals Subscription - If your credit card is invalid for any reason we will suspend or cancel your Personals Subscription account immediately, and permanently delete all the information within it.
Quality of service
Our service is designed to be available 24 hours every day and we give you prior warning if there is a planned interruption that may affect your use of our services. However, as we do not provide internet access services, we are not responsible if you cannot use our services during events that are beyond our control, for example, a failure of the telecommunications infrastructure or the inability of your internet access service provider to provide internet access to you.
We do not offer any service-level guarantees and, under our terms of service, we are not responsible for indirect or consequential losses.
Complaints unacceptable material/abuse
If you wish to make a complaint about unacceptable material on our site or misuse of our site, please fill in our . Report Abuse Form
Back to top
Complaints our services
For other complaints, including about our services, please go to our . For more information on contacting us, see the section a href="http://uk.docs.yahoo.com/codeofpractise.html#_Toc68954323#_Toc68954323">How to contact usabove. Information Centre
We try our best to respond to most complaints within 4 days of receiving them. However, we cannot guarantee any time period within which we will respond to or resolve any issue because this will depend on its type and severity.
If one of our Customer Care Representatives is unable to resolve your concern, the matter will be escalated to a Supervisor.
If we have not resolved your complaint to your satisfaction within 12 weeks of your initial complaint or if you have received a letter from us stating that your complaint has reached eadlock then you should follow the procedure set out under below, which includes an explanation of how you can refer your complaint to the Communications and Internet Services Adjudication Scheme. /span>Sorting out disagreements
Sorting out disagreements
Yahoo! is a member of theCommunications and Internet Services Adjudication Scheme(CISAS). If we have not resolved your complaint to your satisfaction within 12 weeks of your initial complaint or if you have received a letter from us stating that your complaint has reached eadlock you may take your complaint further through CISAS.
CISAS
C/o The Chartered Institute of Arbitrators
12 Bloomsbury Square London WC1A 2LP Tel: +44 (0) 20 7421 7444 Fax: +44 (0) 20 7404 7150
Email: cisas@arbitrators.org
This scheme is administered by The Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. You may contact CISAS in relation to any complaints or disputes that you do not feel Yahoo! has dealt with satisfactorily. For more information relating to this scheme, please visit . (Guidance notes and an application form on which to make your complaint are available on this website.) http://www.arbitrators.org/cisas
Your privacy
Yahoo! takes your privacy seriously. Our lets you know the types of personal information that we collect about you and how we may use that information. Privacy Policy
We will not sell or rent your personal information to anyone without your consent. Even when you have given us your consent, you will get the opportunity to tell us you don want to continue to receive our marketing information each time we contact you. (This does not apply to messages from us about our core service, which let you know about important updates or changes to our service.)
Any personal information you provide to Yahoo! is protected under the Data Protection Act 1998. Yahoo! complies fully with this Act and is registered with the Information Commissioner under registration number Z743302X.