Prep smarter, score higher—guaranteed, or your money back!
Special Offer
Enter your Zip/Postal Code or City, State to view course and other information for your area.
Zip/Postal Code or City, State:*
Enter your Zip/Postal Code or City, State to view program options in your area.
Zip/Postal Code or City, State:*
Sign In Forgot Your Password?
Don't have a Kaptest.com account? Join Now
Prepping for the GMAT is an important and valuable investment—your score is a critical part of the MBA admissions process.  Thorough preparation is essential on a computer-adaptive exam like the GMAT, and Kaplan offers a variety of different GMAT preparation programs to help you get the high score you want.
Why should you choose Kaplan?
Prospective students often ask us, "What makes Kaplan different?" There are many things that make us unique—comprehensive resources, best-in-class teachers, over 70 years in the test prep industry—and you'll read more about them throughout our site. But ultimately, what differentiates Kaplan from the rest is that our focus is on . We don't believe in the "one-size-fits-all" approach. We know that everyone has unique needs, and depending upon your goals or schedule, a particular course of ours may not be the right fit for you. And we'll tell you that. We're committed to your success, and that requires partnering with you to develop a personalized plan to help you achieve your MBA goals.you
Read on and find out why .†more people get into business school with a Kaplan GMAT course than with any other major course
The Most Personalized GMAT Prep Experience
Kaplan offers an unparalleled suite of comprehensive GMAT courses, each designed to meet individual needs, because one size does NOT fit all when it comes to GMAT prep.
Through our exclusive ™ technology, we continually analyze your performance and adapt your personalized study plan to ensure that you focus on your areas of greatest opportunity, for truly personalized prep. Smart Reports
We offer complete flexibilityfor you—with free make-up sessions at any Center and online access to every missed class.
Unmatched Expertise
More than 40 years of experience teaching the GMAT means that when you enroll with Kaplan, you tap into a vast network of expertise in GMAT research and development.
Kaplan's GMAT instructors are top-scoring, engaging, rigorously-trained, and have completed a competitive selection process—Kaplan accepts fewer than 1 in 6 applicants to teach the GMAT.
Only Kaplan offers the most realistic practice available through the , a practice exam at a real testing center.  Ultimate Practice Test
Guaranteed Results
You will score higher on the GMAT, . guaranteed—or your money back
Start your prep with Kaplan today!