See how easy it is to install Frameitall Products. Select the product below and watch a short and informative instructional video.
Frame It All: Revolutionizing Raised Vegetable Gardens
Easy to install, all-season durable and attractive in any yard, the Frame It All system, from Scenery Solutions, is changing the way raised vegetable gardens are being built. Gone are the tattered, rotting wood frames or hulking ugly railroad ties that overpower the aesthetics of your yard. And with the you won waste hours measuring lumber, aligning seams and measuring angles.
simple assembly of Frame It All
Whether youe growing tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, cauliflower, cucumbers, green beans, strawberries, raspberries, or any other vegetable, a Frame It All raised vegetable garden greatly improves your odds of harvesting a bountiful crop.
The Frame It All system consists of three components. The concept is based on the patented design of the Frame It All Anchor Joint and Stacking Joint. Made of durable plastic in a color that blends in with your landscape, Anchor and Stacking Joints swivel a full 270offering a multitude of design options for laying out raised vegetable gardens and other landscape elements.
Frame It All Anchor Joints feature a 11.5serrated stake that is hammered into the earth and remains secure even when the land shifts due to frost of other climate changes. For creating tiered raised beds, you can also add Stacking Joints through a specially designed connecting hole in the top of the Anchored Joint.
Frame It All Composite Timbers are the final component of the system. Made of a blend of wood fiber and UV-protected polypropylene, our timbers are both attractive -  with an organic texture and color and all-season durable. Plus, unlike pressure-treated wood (which is saturated with chemicals like arsenic), there are no dangerous chemicals present in our timbers.
Small caps, designed to cover the tops of the highest Stacking Joints, keep dirt, sand and other grit from getting into the joints.
The unique design of the Frame It All system lets you design and build a raised vegetable garden that is, rugged, resistant to warping from winter frost, and won rot from exposure to rain and moisture. And best of allFrame It All vegetable gardens are incredibly easy to install.