Reviewer: Rowena Lim Lei
Kagome has always been an ordinary girl in modern day Japan. But what Kagome doesn't know is, she is actually the reincarnation of a powerful priestess who died hundreds of years back. One extraordinary day, a strange monster breaks out of an old well near her house. Kagome is pulled back to ancient times where she meets Inu-Yasha, who is half-human and half-demon. Together, they must go on a mystical adventure involving the shards of the legendary Shikon jewel... who knows? They may even find love.Synopsis:
And Ms. Rumiko Takahashi does it again!Review:
Inu-Yasha is an ingenious mix of action, magic, romance, and folklore. The plot is very interesting, as it incorporates legends and real life, past and present. The brisk pacing assures us that there's never a dragging moment. Our heroes come across all sorts of monstrous encounters, each one more exciting than the last. If there was a way to depict violence and gore in a "nice" way, Ms. Takahashi had done it with Inu-Yasha. Her trademark wit and humor keeps things running along nicely, and reading through a manga series has never been so much fun. We also get the occasional tender moments between our lead characters, but it's never mushy or overdone. Character development is gradual. Their personalities unfold bit by bit, getting the readers acquainted with the characters at a realisitic pace.
Inu-Yasha also showcases some of Ms. Takahashi's best art. Her drawing style has refined through the years and it shows. Panel placements and layouts are a bit more unconventional.Although still simple in style, the overall quality of the illustrations has improved by leaps and bounds.
To sum it up, Inu-Yasha makes for a truly enjoyable reading experience. It's got something for everyone, and it's easily one of the best manga series out there.
Inu-Yasha is one of Ms. Rumiko Takahashi's more recent works. It's quite a lot of fun.Miscellanies:
Sample Panels
- click on title to purchase:Shopping
AnimeNation (Graphic Novels) Rightstuf (Graphic Novel Vol. 1) Inu-Yasha