Atropine Tablets (AT-row-peen) Atreza and Sal-Tropine
Atreza
Brand Name:
Atreza is used for:
Treating spasms in the stomach, intestines, and other organs. It may also be used to decrease the production of saliva and secretions of the airway or for other conditions as determined by your doctor.
Atreza is an anticholinergic. It works by blocking the effects of a chemical in the body (acetylcholine) in the nervous system, stomach, intestines, certain glands (eg, salivary gland), urinary tract, and other tissues.
Do NOT use Atreza if:
you are allergic to any ingredient in Atreza
you have adhesions between the iris and lens of the eyes, asthma, blocking of the stomach or bowel, ulcerative colitis, bleeding, angle-closure glaucoma, myasthenia gravis, difficulty urinating due to a blockage, excess acid in the stomach or throat, esophagus problems (difficulty swallowing), or bowel muscle weakness
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Before using Atreza :
Some medical conditions may interact with Atreza . Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
if you are pregnant, planning to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances
if you have a history of megacolon or a predisposition to angle-closure glaucoma
if you have numbness due to nerve damage, prostate problems (enlarged prostate), blockage of the bladder, trouble urinating, heart problems (congestive heart failure), hiatal hernia, or open-angle glaucoma
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with Atreza . Tell your health care provider if you are taking any other medicines, especially any of the following:
Antihistamines (eg, diphenhydramine), medicine for Parkinson disease (eg, benztropine), or tricyclic antidepressants (eg, amitriptyline) because they may increase the risk of Atreza 's side effects
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur. Ask your health care provider if Atreza may interact with other medicines that you take. Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
How to use Atreza :
Use Atreza as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Take Atreza by mouth with or without food.
If you miss a dose of Atreza , take it as soon as possible. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not take 2 doses at once.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use Atreza .
Important safety information:
If your symptoms do not get better within a few days or if they get worse, check with your doctor.
Atreza may cause drowsiness or blurred vision. These effects may be worse if you take it with alcohol or certain medicines. Use Atreza with caution. Do not drive or perform other possibly unsafe tasks until you know how you react to it.
Do not drink alcohol or use medicines that may cause drowsiness (eg, sleep aids, muscle relaxers) while you are using Atreza ; it may add to their effects. Ask your pharmacist if you have questions about which medicines may cause drowsiness.
Do not become overheated in hot weather or while you are being active; heatstroke may occur.
Report any symptoms of fluid or electrolyte loss to your doctor: dry mouth; thirst; weakness; lethargy; drowsiness; restlessness; muscle pain or cramps; muscle weakness; low blood pressure; infrequent urination; rapid heartbeat; stomach disorders such as nausea and vomiting.
Atreza may make your eyes more sensitive to sunlight. It may help to wear sunglasses.
Tell your doctor or dentist that you take Atreza before you receive any medical or dental care, emergency care, or surgery.
Use Atreza with caution in the ELDERLY; they may be more sensitive to its effects.
Atreza should be used with extreme caution in CHILDREN younger than 13 years old; safety and effectiveness in these children have not been confirmed.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: If you become pregnant, contact your doctor. You will need to discuss the benefits and risks of using Atreza while you are pregnant. It is not known if Atreza is found in breast milk. If you are or will be breast-feeding while you use Atreza , check with your doctor. Discuss any possible risks to your baby.
Possible side effects of Atreza :
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects.Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Blurred vision; constipation; decreased salivation; decreased sweating; difficulty sleeping; difficulty swallowing; dilation of the pupils; dizziness; drowsiness; excitement; fever; headache; hot, flushed, dry skin; loss of taste; mild to severe dryness of the nose and mouth; nausea; nervousness; thirst.
Seek medical attention right away if any of these SEVERE side effects occur:
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); changes in heartbeat; confusion; delirium; diarrhea; difficulty focusing your eyes; difficulty urinating; fast/irregular heartbeat; hallucinations; rash; restlessness with weakness; speech disturbance; unusual weakness; vomiting.
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. You may also report side effects at . http://www.fda.gov/medwatch
If OVERDOSE is suspected:
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center (), or emergency room immediately. Symptoms may include anxiety; coma; difficulty breathing; dilated pupils; disorientation; hallucinations; high blood pressure; high body temperature; hyperactivity; muscle weakness; restlessness; seizures; severe dizziness; urinary retention; vomiting. http://www.aapcc.org Proper storage of Atreza :
Store Atreza at room temperature, between 68 and 77 degrees F (20 and 25 degrees C). Brief storage at temperatures between 59 and 86 degrees F (15 and 30 degrees C) is permitted. Store away from heat, moisture, and light. Do not store in the bathroom. Keep Atreza out of the reach of children and away from pets.
General information:
If you have any questions about Atreza , please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Atreza is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed. Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
This information is a summary only. It does not contain all information about Atreza . If you have questions about the medicine you are taking or would like more information, check with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Issue Date: January 7, 2009
Database Edition 09.1.1.001