Pink Floyd The Wall (film)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: , navigation search
For other works related to the Pink Floyd album, see . The Wall (Pink Floyd)
This article Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed.needs additional for . citations verification improve this article reliable references challenged
(May 2008)
6 August 1982 () New York City
Running time
IMDb Allmovie
is a by British based on the 1979 album . The was written by Pink Floyd and . The film is highly and is rich in symbolic and . It features very little and is mainly driven by Pink Floyd's music. Although it features a linear storyline, in many ways more resembles a long-form than a traditional narrative feature film.Pink Floyd The Wall 1982 musical film director Alan Parker Pink Floyd The Wall screenplay vocalist bassist Roger Waters metaphorical imagery sound dialogue The Wall music video
The film contains fifteen minutes of elaborate sequences by the and , part of which depict a vision of the bombing campaign over the during set to the song "". animation political cartoonist illustrator Gerald Scarfe nightmarish German United Kingdom World War II Goodbye Blue Sky
Contents
[] edit Plot summary
The film depicts the construction and ultimate demolition of a metaphorical wall. Though the film is highly interpretable, the wall itself clearly reflects a sense of and . isolation alienation
Pink, the tragic hero (and ) of the film, is depicted at various stages of physical and mental development. Pink is first seen sitting lethargically by himself in a hotel room, just after having trashed it. During the following scenes, it is revealed that Pink's father was killed during while he was just a baby. unreliable narrator World War II
The movie then flashes back to Pink as a young boy growing up in the early 1950s. Throughout his childhood, Pink longs for a father figure, and is devastated to learn of his father's death through a certificate sent by "". Pink bids farewell to his "blue sky" and begins construction on his wall. Later, Pink is seen along with two cronies laying from his father's service weapon on a railroad, where he is caught by a domineering teacher. English Kind Old King George cartridges
One of Gerald Scarfe's many depictions of the wall from
Pink Floyd The Wall
The scene then switches over to Pink's school, where he is humiliated by the teacher for writing poems in class. The poems that the teacher reads aloud are lyrics from "" from the album . Pink is also affected by his overprotective mother, who aims to lower his sexuality and tries not to let anyone 'dirty' get near him. Despite this, Pink eventually gets married, but over the years, he and his wife grow further and further apart, with Pink concentrating on his music; his wife becomes involved with an anti-nuclear arms group, and eventually has an affair with the leader of the group while Pink is on tour. During this point it is revealed that Pink's full name is Floyd Pinkerton, parallelling the group. Money Pink Floyd Dark Side of the Moon
When Pink learns of the affair, he fills in the gaps in his wall with expensive materialistic possessions (stereos, fancy cars, television sets, etc.). Mirroring his wife's infidelity, Pink (now a star) turns to a sexually willing (), inviting her to his hotel room despite his initial exasperation with her. Following the groupie's theatrical ramblings concerning his hotel room, Pink falls into another one of his television-induced trances, only to eventually have an emotional breakdown, trashing the hotel room and driving the groupie away. After years of repressed rage and mental anguish, Pink declares that he doesn't need anything at all, and completes his wall. rock groupie Jenny Wright
Behind his freshly completed wall, Pink slowly begins to lose his mind to metaphorical worms eating into his brain. He begins to see the drawbacks of isolating himself from society, and tries vainly to reconnect with the outside world. After failing to do so, Pink locks himself within his hotel room, and spends his days creating an odd shrine out of his ruined possessions. Eventually, Pink , giving birth to his fascist alter-ego. shaves off all of his body hair
Pink () at a fascist rally
Bob Geldof
The incident was inspired by former bandmate Syd Barrett, who appeared at a 1975 recording session of , having shaved his eyebrows and body hair. While watching on television, Pink, discovering what he has become, falls into a catatonic state, during which he attempts to reconnect with the past and reverse the fading of his roots. At a train station, Pink is told that human connection is the only way to bring down his wall. However, Pink continues to dwell on the bricks in his wall, unaware of his manager knocking at the door of his hotel room. In the real world, Pink's manager (), along with the hotel manager () and some paramedics, discover Pink in his catatonic trance (Pink's manager exclaims "Fuck me!" when he sees the state of the room), and inject him with drugs to snap him out of it; the manager attempts to justify Pink's actions ("He's an !"), then bribes/pays for the damage. Wish You Were Here [1] [2] The Dam Busters Bob Hoskins Michael Ensign artist
The iconic Hammers.
The drugs cause Pink to hallucinate, causing him to believe that he is a fascist dictator, and that his concert has become a hate rally, in which the melody of is recreated as a military march by a plus with Wagnerian overtones. Upon his orders, Pink's followers proceed to tear apart the houses and restaurants of ethnic minorities, rape the white girlfriend of a black man, and generally destroy everything in their path, in scenes reminiscent of (with the song "" playing). After the riot, Pink holds a rally in a suburban neighbourhood singing "", while frightening locals reminiscent of the . The scene is inter-cut by images of the animated marching hammers that across ruins. At the climax of his rule, Pink's conscience finally rebels. The images are finally ceased as Pink screams "STOP!" at the top of his lungs, and he ends up taking refuge in a bathroom stall in an unknown building, probably the rock concert hall, where distant cheering could be heard, hinting that the whole time he was hallucinating before his rock concert, tearful and mumbling to himself. In the final sequence, Pink goes before a bizarre trial, shown entirely in animation. Pink is animated as a small blank-faced doll that rarely moves. The judge is animated as a giant pair of buttocks wearing a British judge's wig and speaking out of its . In the court appears Pink's mother, flying in as a giant aeroplane and a talking vagina; the schoolmaster, a marionette; and Pink's wife, morphing from a snake to a scorpion to a fiery-haired hag with literal "love handles" and exposed vagina. After hearing evidence from them all, the judge decrees that Pink should be "exposed before [his] peers" and orders the wall to be torn down. In the Flesh fanfare church organ Kristallnacht Run Like Hell Waiting for the Worms march on Skokie, Illinois by the Neo-Nazi party goosestep kangaroo court anus
Finally, children are seen cleaning up the street after a riot, and Pink's fate is unknown. The film ends with a young Pink dumping the contents of a onto the ground. Molotov cocktail
[] edit History
Even before the original Pink Floyd album was recorded, a film was intended to be made from it. However, the concept of the film was intended to be live footage from the album's tour, with Scarfe's animation and extra scenes. The film was going to star Waters himself. did not intend to make the film, as they did not understand the concept. [3] EMI [4]
Director Alan Parker, a fan of Pink Floyd, asked EMI whether could be adapted to film. EMI suggested that Parker talk to Waters, who asked Parker to direct the film. Parker instead suggested that he produce it and give the directing task to Scarfe and , a cinematographer. Waters began work on the film's screenplay after studying scriptwriting books. He and Scarfe produced a special-edition book containing the screenplay and art to pitch the project to investors. While the book depicted Roger in the role of Pink, after screen tests, Roger was removed from the starring role; he was replaced with the edgy musician .The Wall Michael Seresin [5] [6] punk Bob Geldof
Since Roger was no longer in the starring role, it no longer made sense for the feature to include Pink Floyd footage, so the live film aspect was dropped. Waters and Parker were not given much of a choice anyway, because the footage culled from the five concerts that were held specifically for filming was deemed unusable.Wall [7]
During production, Geldof suffered a cut to his hand while filming the destruction of the hotel room set as he pulls away the venetian blinds. The footage remains in the film. Also, it was discovered during the filming of the pool scenes that Geldof did not know how to swim. Interiors were shot at , and it was suggested that they suspend Geldof in clear cast used for the flying sequences from storage, but his frame was too small by comparison; it was then decided to use a similar mould for from , which was a more acceptable fit, and he simply laid on his back. Pinewood Studios Christopher Reeve's Superman Helen Slater Supergirl [8]
[] edit Premiere
The film's official was at the , London, on 14 July 1982. It was attended by Waters, Gilmour and Mason, but not Wright. premiere Empire, Leicester Square
[] edit Reception
Roger Waters has expressed dissatisfaction with the film, and is reported to have been philosophically at odds with director Alan Parker during filming, who himself walked out of the project on multiple occasions due to the conflict. awards a 65% "fresh" rating on its' site, although when the results are filtered for only the Rotten Tomatoes community, meaning professional critics are filtered out, the film receives the significantly higher rating of 88% fresh.[] citation needed [] weasel words Rotten Tomatoes Pink Floyd The Wall
David Gilmour stated (on both the episodes of and ) that the making of the film was where the feud between him and Waters started. Gilmour also stated on the documentary Behind The Wall (which was aired on BBC TV and VH1 in the US) that "the movie was the less successful telling of The Wall story as opposed to the album and concert versions". The film entered at #28 of the US Box Office charts despite only playing in one theatre on its first weekend, grossing over $68,000, a rare feat even by today's standards. The film then spent just over two months below the top 20 while still in the top 30, before moving up to its peak placing of #3 from the low 20's the previous week. In the Studio with Redbeard A Momentary Lapse of Reason On an Island
[] edit Documentary
A documentary was produced about the making of entitled that includes interviews with Parker, Scarfe, and clips of Waters, originally aired on in 1982. A second documentary about the film was produced in 1999 entitled that includes interviews with Waters, Parker, Scarfe, and other members of the film's production team. Both are on The Wall DVD as extras.Pink Floyd The WallThe Other Side of the Wall MTV Retrospective
[] edit Video release and rights issues
The film was originally released on VHS and LaserDisc on the former MGM/UA Home Video in 1983, and continued on with what became until around 2000 (it was originally not part of MGM's pre-1986 library acquired by ). The following year, after Turner merged with , the film was incorporated into Turner's holdings, but since had, by that time, owned some rights to the film (along with Roger Waters' production company, Tin Blue, Ltd., and music publishing company Kimbridge Music), the video rights were transferred from MGM to Sony Music Video, and all current video releases are from Sony Music. However, (via Turner) remains the television and theatrical rights holder for the film.[] citation needed MGM Home Entertainment Turner Entertainment Time Warner Sony Music [] citation needed Warner Bros. [] citation needed