Useful Links
von Willebrand Disease
This disorder results from a deficiency or defect in the protein known as von Willebrand Factor (vWF). It is named after the Swedish clinician who first discovered the disease. vWF is involved in more than one stage of blood clotting. It is the protein that binds platelets to damaged tissue and promotes platelet aggregation at the earliest stage of clot formation. It also acts as a stabiliser of Factor VIII. In plasma, Factor VIII is bound to vWF which protects it and stops its breakdown.
vWD is quite a common condition, and as many as 1 in 100 of the population may be mildly affected, although most are not aware of it because they have no serious symptoms. Fortunately, a large majority of those affected do not have the most severe form of vWD. The disorder is not sex-linked and both males and females may be affected. The bleeding problems experienced by vWD patients are often mucosal (nose bleeds, gastrointestinal bleeds, heavy menstrual bleeding for women, etc.). Some people with vWD receive treatment with the hormone analogue DDAVP (which is not a blood product). Where DDAVP is not effective, then replacement using plasma-derived vWF concentrates takes place.
Patient Information Leaflets (PIL)
- Patient Information Leaflet (PIL)Factor VIII/vWF Concentrate
Support Information
Haemophilia - Issues and options for women who are carriers.
A comprehensive guide designed to answer your questions and offer reassurance that, in many cases, carriers of haemophilia can be helped and supported and the condition treated.
Mild or Moderate Haemophilia - How will it affect my life?
An introduction to the disorder for those newly diagnosed, giving information on what it is, how it will affect them and how it can be managed.
von Willebrand Disease - How will it affect my life?
An introduction to the disorder for those newly diagnosed, giving information on what it is, how it will affect them and how it can be managed.
For further information, please contact your GP.
Site last updated 12/12/2008 12:43:12 © Bio Products Laboratory, 2003 Contact: +44 (0)20 8258 2200 e-mail: info@bpl.co.uk