SSM St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood Hotel
()
is a not-for-profit, acute care community hospital.  Located about 4 miles from our two Fenton Hotels, St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood is a member of SSM Health Care.  If your visit to St. Louis is for the St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood, our is an excellent choice for extended stays, offering special extended stay rates. SSM St. Joseph Hospital of KirkwoodTownePlace Suites St. Louis Fenton Hotel
. Click here for an interactive map to SSM St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood powered by Google
SSM St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood has been in operation since October, 1954.  Today St. Joseph offers full-service acute care with over 700 physicians and over 900 employees.  Offering high-quality medical and emergency services, St. Joseph is available 24 hours a day providing quick, responsive care to all patients.  Hospital services include: Anticoagulation/Coumadin Clinic, Cancer Care Center, Cardiovascular Health Services, Emergency Department, Family Birthplace, Orthopedics, Radiology Services, Senior Services, Sleep Center, SSM Health & Wellness Programs, Surgical Services, and Women Center. Visit SSM St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood official website linked below for complete information including a directory of physicians and additional programs offered.
Both the Fairfield Inn by Marriott St Louis Fenton Hotel or the TownePlace Suites by MarriottSt Louis Fenton Hotel are ideal choices for visitors to SSM St. Joseph Hospital of Kirkwood.  We guarantee high quality accommodations, friendly efficient service, and clean comfortable surroundings. Our deluxe guest rooms feature luxury bedding, complimentary high-speed Internet access and at the Fairfield  Inn we offer a daily complimentary Early Eats breakfast featuring Jimmy Dean breakfast sandwiches and the TownePlace Suites offers a Grab and Go breakfast.  Freshly brewed coffee and gourmet tea are available 24 hours in the lobby.
This site books directly with the hotel of your choice and avoids any fees while guaranteeing the best available rate. All frequent guest programs are honored with the hotel of your choice so and save time and money! Our premier location with two St. Louis Fenton hotels offers the best in Missouri hotel reservations with comfortable guest rooms and suites. Book Today
to find out about exciting upcoming events at each St. Louis-Fenton hotel. Visit our calendar
2 Great St Louis-Fenton MO Hotels! • Fenton, Missouri 63026Fairfield Inn & TownePlace Suites St Louis-Fenton Hotels
Copyright © 2009 L.E.T. Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Website Powered by: L.E.T. Group
Website Managed by eMax, a RTM Company: www.1emax.com