MEMBERS AREA Membership
The club holds meetings on the except in July and August. At each club meeting there is a potluck, business meeting and main presentation. In addition, there is a member showcase where a different club member truts their stuff.nbsp; There is also a "knowledge box" where members present information on various topics, such as mineral hardness, what a Herkimer Diamond is, identification of various kinds of petrified wood, etc. Our club's purpose of sharing knowledge and interests in Rocks and Minerals is very apparent at club meetings.Meetings:third Sunday of the month
The Calaveras Gem and Mineral members have diverse interests. Many of our members are faceters and/or lapidarists. Other members have an interest in suiseki, rock carving, fluorescent minerals and/or petrified wood. Some of the members like natural crystals and mineral specimens, while others like the thumbnails or micromounts. One of our members is becoming a well-known diaza maker.Member Interests:
Our group has a strong interest in and o field trips ffers a wide variety of collecting opportunities to its members and through the club and an affiliated group, the Co-op. Use of our is convenient and is encouraged. lapidary shop
Other educational endeavors of the club include:
 Library
- Members are welcome to partake of the club's library with many journals, reference books, and periodicals. - The club bulletin, , is published and sent to members monthly (except July and August) to keep them informed about club activities. The bulletin includes articles about gems and minerals, lapidary, historical features, safety and CFMS activities. - The club has had a display case at the local library and hopes to make this a yearly project. - The club has had a booth at Snyder Pow-Wow to inform the local public about its educational programs and lapidary shop. - The Calaveras club is expanding its services and participation beyond its membership. Club members have given numerous talks to other Northern California mineral clubs and, earlier this year, sponsored a CFMS competitive case and judging workshop at its club meeting and invited surrounding clubs to attend. There are usually about 80 display cases at the club's . Shows also include vendors, demonstrations and special children's activities. In 2006, the club hosted the California Federation of Mineralogical Societies (CFMS) statewide show.
Monthly NewsletterThe Golden Frog