submission guidelines
(You can preview and edit on the next page) Recent Tattoo Submissions
Click below to see view pictures of tattoos from site visitors, rate their ink and read comments from others about your tattoos.
  This piece was done on three separate occasions by three different artists. It Represents fire and ice among other things. Eventually I hope to have my ... Sexy Lower Back Tattoo
  This tattoo was done in a small town called Iron City. The shop's name is Iron City Graf X. I'm a huge Betty Boop fan and wanted a tattoo of her. It's ... Betty Boop Tattoo
  My first tat when I turned 18... seemed like it took forever! Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Sexy Lower Back Tattoo
  I done this tattoo on one of my friends, she wanted it on her back for some time and she didn't want to pay no 600 bucks so i hooked her up with this baby.... Back Tattoo
  It took bout 35 minutes .. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Cursive Script Tattoo
  It's three sea turtles with a water-tribal running through them and took roughly three hours to complete!! I got it done in Valdosta, GA at "Ink Addictions"... Turtles & Tribal Lower Back Tattoo
  It took 2 hours. Artist was Tattau Tef. Tribal Tattoo on Arm
  Tattoo took approximately 30 mins to complete. This piece is a custom (as all my work is one of a kind) heart/flame band for a female that is also a cover-... Armband Tattoo
  Large tribal heart design, took just under an hour and a half. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly ... Tribal Heart Tattoo on Lower Back
  My tattoo is a custom drawn by Marvin of Chrome Lotus in Orlando, Florida. It took under an hour. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black ... Tribal Heart Tattoo
  This tattoo symbolizes my kids. The sun is my son my baby boy. The ocean is my daughter her name is oceania. The sky is my other daughter her name is ... Tattoo Symbolizing Kids
  Not rated yet These back pieces were done in 3 sessions, total of about 9 hours. Had them all done at Jade Dragon by Joy. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Sexy Fairy Tattoos
  Not rated yet MY TATTOO TOOK AT LEAST 40MINUTES IT WAS PRETTY PAINFUL BUT IT IS ADDICTING. NOW I WANT SOME COLOR IN IT. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Zodiac Tattoo on Lower Back
  Not rated yet Its a beautiful butterfly with roses. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos ... Sexy Lower Back Butterfly Tattoo
  Not rated yet I had this done Thanksgiving 2K7 @ Little Vinnie's Tattoo Parlor, MD. Took roughly an hour and a half. Gonna have another done this year :) Popular ... Abstract Tattoo on Lower Back
  Not rated yet This is a tribal tattoo...:X Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Sexy Tribal Tattoo
  Not rated yet My tattoo was done by a friend of my husbands, Byron Winkelman at "THINK INK" in Woodland Hills, Ca. back in 2005'. It is a unique design he put together ... Victorian Style Lower Back Tattoo
  Not rated yet Sexy Low Back Tribal Tattoo. Was done in Newquay, Cornwall and took about 45mins. My Husbands loves it. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos ... Tribal Tattoo - Lower Back
  Not rated yet First tattoo, took 3 hours. Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon ... Fairy Tattoo on Lower Back
  Not rated yet I got this tattoo as a cover up. But it is symbolic to me because I have gone through a serious personal change. The butterfly symbolizes that to me.... Butterfly Tattoo Cover Up
  Not rated yet Took 20 Mins Popular Tattoo Designs angel tattoos , black and gray tattoos , butterfly tattoos , celtic tattoos , dragon tattoos , erotic ... Ribbon Tattoo
Looking for sexy lower back tattoos?