Forgot your password?
The term "ACVS Diplomate" refers to a veterinarian who has been board certified in veterinary surgery. Only veterinarians who have successfully completed the certification requirements of the ACVS are Diplomates of the American College of Veterinary Surgeons and have earned the right to be called specialists in veterinary surgery. Veterinarians wishing to become board certified must complete a three-year residency program, meet specific training and caseload requirements, perform research and have their research published. This process is supervised by current ACVS Diplomates, ensuring consistency in training and adherence to high standards. Once the residency has been completed, the resident must sit for and pass a rigorous examination. Only then does the veterinarian earn the title of ACVS Diplomate.
To find an ACVS Diplomate in your area, visit . www.acvs.org/AnimalOwners/DiplomateDirectory
LAMINITIS
When discussing laminitis, it is important to have a consistent vocabulary. All of the following terms are used to describe laminitis in its various forms:
Laminitis 
Support Laminitis
Metabolic Laminitis
is a condition that describes inflammation of the lamellae within the hoof. The terms lamellar and laminar are synonymous.  Lamellar and lamellae are the best descriptive terms; in the U.S. laminar is commonly used. Laminitis in the horse is a disease that is induced by multiple, apparently unrelated causes, and results in an acute and/or chronic lameness condition. It is s a complex condition which involves changes of the cardiovascular, endocrine, renal, and gastrointestinal systems, and produces changes in the immunologic status and blood coagulation in addition to the problems in the foot.  A laminitic horse shows a characteristic lameness and other signs:LaminitisNote:
Warm feet
Abnormal position of the coffin bone inside the hoof
Figure 1.
.
Figure 2
is a term used to describe the stage of laminitis when the hoof begins to fail mechanically.
Founder
Figure 3.
Mechanical failure of all lamellar attachments, which forces the coffin bone downward under the weight of the animal.
Sinker:
are also distinguished by various causative agents.
Types of Laminitis
  occurs when one limb bears excessive weight during recovery from injury to the opposite (contralateral) limb.Support Laminitis
Figure 5.
(Road Founder)  occurs when a horse is overworked on a hard surface.Traumatic Laminitis
Figure 6.
describes laminitis caused by overeating, inactivity, or carbohydrate overload.Metabolic (Biochemical) Laminitis
describes laminitis secondary to diseases such as a pituitary adenoma which produces an excess of corticosteroid in the system (i.e. Cushing’s Disease)Endocrine Laminitis
Figure 7.
The progression of laminitis can be divided into distinct stages or phases:
Stages of Laminitis
Refractory phase
Figure 8.
(20-60 hours) The Developmental stage of Laminitis starts when the horse is exposed to the causative agent, and ends with the first signs of lameness. During this phase, which lasts between 24 and 60 hours, lamellar separation is triggered, but there are no signs of foot pain.Developmental Phase
(24-72 hours) The Acute Phase of Laminitis marks the beginning of clinical changes in the horse’s feet.Acute Phase
Figure 9.
The acute phase starts with the first signs of lameness and continues until 72 hours have passed without physical or radiographic evidence of mechanical collapse of the foot. This phase ends abruptly with foot collapse (rotation or sinking of the coffin bone).   Signs include bounding digital pulses, heat, sensitivity to hoof testers, and lameness. A “camped in front” stance is often seen.
Figure 10.
(72 hours to life) The subacute phase is a mild period with less severe clinical signs and without mechanical failure of the foot. It often ends without permanent lamellar damage, which is the ideal resolution of the acute phase. 
Subacute Phase
(72 hours to life) The Chronic phase of Laminitis when the foot begins to fail mechanically.   This can occur because of progressive changes to the present in the acute phase or due to mechanical overloading of the foot in the subacute phase of the disease. The term “Founder” is best used to refer to a horse with chronic laminitis.Chronic Phase
Because the Chronic phase can last indefinitely, three different subphases are used to describe the condition more specifically:
Early Chronic: Resolves or continues for months
Chronic Active: Recurrence of pain after a period of improvement.
Chronic Stable: Coffin bone is stable.  Hoof and sole grow with steady clinical improvement.
Figure 11.
Figure 12.
Figure 13.
This term is used to describe laminitis that either does not or is only minimally responsive to treatment within 7-10 days. Refractory Phase
 
Hoof Mechanics
Figure 14. Normal Foot
Understanding laminitis requires a basic knowledge of the normal inner workings of a horse’s foot, and the forces that disrupt them.  In the normal horse, the forces of weight bearing are transmitted down through the bones of the leg to the third phalanx (distal phalanx, coffin bone, pedal bone or P3), which is located within the hoof wall. The third phalanx is connected to the hoof wall by the laminae. Laminae run from the top of the foot to the bottom.  Laminae projecting outward from the outside of the third phalanx (the sensitive lamina or corium) interlock  with laminae projecting inward from the hoof wall (the insensitive lamina). The effect of these interlocking tissues is to greatly increase the surface area which connects the third phalanx to the hoof wall.
When laminitis occurs, there is weakening of the interlocking tissues of the lamina, thought to be a result of lack of blood supply to the affected region. If the inflammation is mild, the problem may go unnoticed and may result in no permanent damage to the foot.  In more severe cases, the laminae from the outside of the third phalanx begin to separate from the laminae on the inside of the hoof wall. If enough laminae separate, the weakened laminar junction can no longer support the weight of the horse and the third phalanx begins to move in relation to the hoof wall. This movement can further damage blood supply to the foot and compound the damage. If the laminae at the front of the foot are affected more severely than those at the heels (the more common situation) the third phalanx begins to rotate due to the strong pull of the deep digital flexor tendon.
Figure 15.
The extensor process of the third phalanx rotates dorsally.  On radiographs, the distance between the hoof wall and bone is greater distally than proximally.
Figure 16.
If the entire laminar junction is affected, Mechanical Failure occurs with displacement of the foot relative to the hoof capsule, increased digital instability, and decreased strength of the lamellar interface causing the third phalanx to begin to move downwards. This condition is called Sinking, Distal Displacement of the Distal Phalanx, or Vertical Displacement of the Coffin Bone. 
Lamellar separation is occurring in all parts of the hoof, and the horse’s weight is forcing the bone through the sole. Sinking indicates more severe damage to the lamellae than occurs during rotation.  Radiographic evidence includes widening of the space between the hoof wall and the bone.
Figure  17.
The vertical distance between the original position of the proximal limit of the extensor process of the third phalanx and its current position (See Figure 17).
Founder Distance
The front of the solar margin of the third phalanx begins to compress the blood supply of the sole, especially at the toe of the hoof, and can result in bruising and/or death of tissue.Solar Compression
Figure 18.
 also known as dropped sole. The rotated coffin bone causes the sole to bulge downward.Solar Prolapse,
Figure 19
Figure 20.
  Abscesses appear secondary to the loss of blood supply, death of tissue, and invasion of bacteria. In chronic cases, submural radiolucencies are seen in radiographs.Subsolar/Submural Abscesses:
Figure 21.
  As rotation of the third phalanx occurs,  hoof growth is altered due to the changes in blood supply. The development of new wall is impaired, especially in the toe region. Rings on the hoof wall illustrate the changed growth pattern and are very prominent in chronic founder, often diverging from toe to heel.  (See Figure 20)Coronary Shear Lesions:
Figure 22.