80307-3331
 
The Flatirons Mineral Club is a non-profit organization, established March 9, 1957, dedicated to developing and maintaining interest in all aspects of earth science and associated hobbies.
Membership dues are $18 per year, beginning in October of each calendar year. For more information, contact the club by mail, , or attend a meeting. To join, fill out a and send it with your dues to the address above. e-mail membership application
are on the second Thursday of each month at 7 p.m., at the (9 and Arapahoe, northeast corner) -- enter the parking lot just west of the Boulder Public Library. Regular Club Meetings West Boulder Senior Center th
January (Jan. 8)– FMC and WIPS member Donn Cook will speak on Trilobites.
February (Feb.12)–Ulli Limpitlaw of the University of Northern Colorado (UNC) Greeley will speak on Minerals in Medicine.
Members and interested parties are also welcome to attend other meetings:
January 14 (Wed.) - Show Volunteer Appreciation Party - Fairgrounds Clover Building (formerly known as the Office Building), Nelson & Hover, Longmont, 7 p.m. Show committee members and volunteers at the 2008 FMC show are invited to come and celebrate.Don't forget to bring your junior volunteers. There will be pizza and prizes.
January 26 (Mon.) – Board Meeting at 7:15 at Charlotte’s home.
February 23 (Mon.) – Board Meeting at 7:15 at Tantra Lake Apts. Clubhouse (1000 W. Moorhead Cir., Boulder, 80305) Contact for directions.   Gerry Naugle
The newsletter is published bimonthly. The publication deadline is the 20 of the month before. Articles and announcements for the March/April  Facets should be sent to by February 20.An abbreviated form of the club newsletter, appears here. Flatirons Facets th Barry Knapp
 
 
The club offers a variety of activities throughout the year:
- Planning for the new season has begun. Please contact our field trip coordinator with suggestions, especially if you'd be willing to lead a trip. Field trips Shaula Lee
– The Jr. Geologists meet every third Thursday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Families interested in joining the Jr. Geologists should contact . The next Jr. Geologists meetings will be January 15 at Charlotte Morrison's home. Junior Geologists Dennis Gertenbach
- Remember, use of the club’s lapidary equipment, including saws and lapidary machines, is open to all club members every Wednesday night at Charlotte Morrison’s home. Please call to let her know you're coming. Workshops