Todays economy may have you wondering if you can afford college. Good news: you can. And The Princeton Review wants to show you how.
Enroll in a Princeton Review SAT or ACT prep course between January 10th and March 31st, 2009 and youll be invited to our webinar, Unlock the Secrets of Paying for College.
This is a unique opportunity to get practical, recession-proof tips on how to afford college from admissions experts Robert Franek, author of , and Kal Chany, author of .Best 368 CollegesPaying for College without Going Broke
Plus, you can win a private pay-for-college planning session!*
When you sign up for an SAT/ACT classroom course, youll be automatically entered in the sweepstakes to win a two-hour private pay-for-college and admissions counseling session with Rob Franekin your hometown!
If you have questions about how you can participate, give us a call at 800-2Review (800-273-8439).
About Robert Franek and Kal Chany
, Vice President-Publishing at The Princeton Review, oversees The Princeton Review's guidebook publishing program -- a line of nearly 200 titles from best-selling test-prep guides to college, graduate school, career-related and reference books. As the companys chief expert on higher education issues, he directs The Princeton Review annual surveys of college, business school, and law school students upon which the well-known Princeton Review rankings are based. As lead author of the company's annual "Best Colleges" guide, he visits more than 50 colleges a year and has been a lecturer and panelist on college admissions for audiences of educators, parents and students. Robert has been interviewed and sourced on standardized tests, college, graduate school, financial aid and career topics by a range of media from Time to The Chronicle of Higher Education and from USA Today to the Wall Street Journal. He has also appeared on ABC "Good Morning America," CBS "The Early Show," (viewable at ) and NBC "Today," (viewable at ) as well as several CNN and FOX programs, National Public Radio and network radio shows.Robert Franek http://tinyurl.com/5w3dzj http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/9050138/
is founder and president of Campus Consultants, Inc. (), a Manhattan-based firm that has guided parents and students through the financial aid process since 1982. He has authored articles for Parade and other publications, guested on CNN, ABC's Good Morning America, CBS "Evening News," NPRs Talk of the Nation and other programs, and been sourced in publications from Family Circle to The Wall Street Journal.Kalman A. Chany www.campusconsultants.com
* No purchase required. A purchase will not increase your chance of winning. Void where prohibited by law. Must be 13 years of age or older as of start date to enter. Open to legal residents who are students in the contiguous United States and D.C. (excluding Rhode Island), as of the start date set forth in the official rules. Automatic entry occurs with a course purchase however a free mail-in means of entry is available. Sweepstakes starts 01/10/09 and ends 03/31/09. Odds of winning will vary depending on number of eligible entries received. For complete rules including information related to free means of entry and prize details go to . Sponsor: The Princeton Review, 111 Speen Street, Suite 550 Framingham, MA 01701. Official Sweepstakes Rules