EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report describes many of the activities and accomplishments of the National Cancer Institute's research programs in 1999 and 2000, addressing cancers specific to or primarily affecting women or those cancers with high incidence or mortality among women. Cancers included are breast, cervical, endometrial, ovarian, lung, and colorectal cancers, as well as AIDS-associated malignancies.
Cancer continues to take a devastating toll on American women. By the end of 2001, an estimated 625,000 women will have been diagnosed with cancer, and approximately 267,300 women will have died of the disease. Despite these grim statistics, our Nation is making progress in the fight against cancer. Between 1992 and 1997, our cancer incidence rates dropped significantly, on average nearly 1.3 percent per year with more rapid decreases since 1995. Overall cancer mortality rates for women have been declining since about 1950, however, at the same time, lung cancer mortality has been increasing in women. Breast cancer incidence rates have shown little change in the 1990s, but death rates have declined by about 2 percent per year and have dropped even more since 1995. Of major concern are continued higher incidence and mortality rates among some racial and ethnic groups for some cancers. We have established a number of initiatives, described in the report, which will work to improve understanding of disparities and develop strategies and interventions to overcome them. More people are living with cancer. As of January 1997, there were 8.9 million people, or 3% of the U.S. population, who were cancer survivors. 58% of these were women.
Through its strategic planning process, the NCI has identified many of the questions that need to be answered, areas of research and care that need to be further addressed, and infrastructure that needs to be strengthened in order to advance our knowledge in the study of cancer. In 2000, the NCI formally established an Office of Women's Health. Organizationally located within the Office of Science Planning and Assessment, the Office is responsible for assisting in the planning, evaluation, and coordination of activities related to cancer in women.
The National Cancer Institute (NCI) is committed to continuing efforts to reduce the toll of cancer through scientific discovery and its application to people. The NCI supports and coordinates a comprehensive research program that investigates all aspects of cancer, including biology, risk, prevention, detection and diagnosis, treatment, control, surveillance, and survivorship. In addition to a wide range of research projects directed at cancers that are specific to women, NCI supports a number of broad-based research programs that apply to all types of cancer in both women and men.
Basic research studies exploring the science of how cancer develops form the foundation of cancer research. Through these studies, scientists are identifying, at the molecular and cellular level, the fundamental processes that underlie a cell's transformation from normal to pre-malignant to malignant. The implications of this research are profound; identifying the processes and pathways that lead to cancer provides attractive targets for new prevention, detection, and treatment approaches. In vitro and in vivo models provide valuable tools for studying the development and behavior of cancer. The recently established Mouse Models of Human Cancers Consortium will provide a new interactive research platform to develop and test the validity of preclinical models which will help to elucidate the development and behavior of cancer and to test new approaches to detection, diagnosis, imaging, prevention and treatment.
In order to conduct research which will further our understanding of the processes involved in the development of cancer, critical resources are needed. For example, genetic registries are being developed to provide researchers with valuable resources for conducting important investigations on genetic and environmental susceptibility for cancers and to support investigations in genetic epidemiology, including the identification and characterization of genes and gene-gene and gene-environment interactions important to susceptibility to specific cancers. To identify and evaluate molecular biomarkers and technologies for earlier detection and risk assessment of all major cancers, networks of investigators in the laboratory and clinical sciences, biostatistics, informatics, and public health are already developing new approaches which may result in new, noninvasive screening approaches.
The NCI supports a broad program of clinical research to develop new agents and novel approaches for the prevention, early detection, and treatment of cancer. Clinical trials to evaluate improved and novel prevention, detection, and treatment strategies are carried out within a clinical trials infrastructure which includes the NCI Cancer Centers, Cooperative Groups, Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs), and the Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) and Minority-based CCOPs.
The NCI supports research in areas of cancer prevention, control, and treatment, including studies in nutrition, chemoprevention, biobehavioral influences on disease, cancer screening, pain control, complementary and alternative medicine, cancer survivorship, and understanding health disparities. A number of recently launched initiatives address issues related to ways to improve the quality of cancer care.
INTRODUCTION
This report describes many of the activities and accomplishments of the National Cancer Institute's research programs in Fiscal Years 1999 and 2000, addressing cancers specific to or primarily affecting women, as well as those cancers with high incidence or mortality among women. Cancers included are breast, cervical, endometrial, ovarian, lung, and colorectal cancers, as well as AIDS-associated malignancies.
Cancer continues to take a devastating toll on American women. By the end of 2001, an estimated 625,000 women will have been diagnosed with cancer, and approximately 267,300 women will have died of the disease. Despite these grim statistics, our Nation is making progress in the fight against cancer. Between 1992 and 1997, overall cancer incidence rates in the United States dropped significantly, on average nearly 1.3% per year. Cancer mortality for both men and women declined by 0.6% per year from 1991 to 1995 and fell more rapidly between 1995 and 1997, at a rate of 1.7% per year. Although cancer mortality rates for women have been declining since about 1950, during that time lung cancer mortality rates among women have been increasing. Breast cancer incidence rates showed little change in the 1990s, but death rates have declined by about 2% per year and have dropped even more since 1995.
Statistics also show that more people are living with cancer. As of January 1997, 8.9 million people, or 3% of the U.S. population, were cancer survivors, and 58% of these individuals were women. Of major concern are continued higher incidence and mortality rates among some racial and ethnic groups. A number of factors may contribute to these disparities. To coordinate the efforts of the National Cancer Institute's (NCI's) Health Disparities Plan (http://crchd.nci.nih.gov/introduction/strategic_plan.html), in 2000 the Institute established the Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities. The NCI has also established a number of initiatives that will work to improve understanding of health disparities and develop strategies and interventions to overcome them.
The NCI is committed to continuing efforts to reduce the toll of cancer through scientific discovery and its application to people. To that end, the Institute supports and coordinates a comprehensive research program that investigates all aspects of cancer, including biology, risk, prevention, treatment, control, surveillance, and survivorship. In 2000, the NCI formally established an Office of Women's Health. Organizationally located within the Office of Science Planning and Assessment, the Office of Women's Health is responsible for assisting in the planning, evaluation, and coordination of activities related to cancer in women.
In addition to a wide range of research projects directed at cancers that are specific to women, the NCI supports a number of broad-based research programs that apply to all types of cancer in both women and men. Through its strategic planning process, the NCI has identified many of the questions that need to be answered, areas of research and care that need to be further addressed, and infrastructure that needs to be strengthened to advance our knowledge in the study of cancer. () includes descriptions of these high-priority areas. The initiatives are not, for the most part, disease specific but address problems and opportunities that are common to all tumors and emphasize the development of technologies and approaches that are applicable to many cancers. As part of the planning process, the NCI convenes Progress Review Groups to assist in setting priorities for organ site-specific research. Since 1998, Progress Review Group reports have been completed in breast, prostate, colorectal, and pancreatic cancers; brain tumors; and lymphoma, leukemia, and myeloma. Reports of these groups are available at . Progress Review Groups are either in progress or planned for lung, gynecologic, kidney and bladder, skin, stomach and esophageal, and liver and bile duct cancers.The Nation's Investment in Cancer Research: A Plan and Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2002 http://plan2002.cancer.gov http://planning.cancer.gov/disease/prg.shtml
CANCER BIOLOGY AND GENETICS
Basic research studies that explore the science of how cancer develops form the foundation of cancer research. Through these studies, scientists are identifying, at the molecular and cellular levels, the fundamental processes that underlie a cell's transformation from normal to pre-malignant to malignant. The implications of this research are profound: identifying the processes and pathways that lead to cancer provides attractive targets for new approaches to prevention, detection, and treatment.
Cancer researchers are studying key processes such as angiogenesis (the formation of new blood vessels) and the signaling pathways involved in cell division and cell death, all of which are critical to tumor development and growth. In collaboration with the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Tissue Proteomics Initiative seeks to develop and utilize new technology to analyze proteins and pathways in human tissues from pre-malignant through treatment phases of disease. and models provide valuable tools for studying the development and behavior of cancer. The NCI recently established the Mouse Models of Human Cancers Consortium, providing funding to 19 groups of investigators at more than 30 U.S. institutions. The consortium will provide a new interactive research platform on which to develop and test the validity of preclinical models that will help to elucidate the development and behavior of cancer and to test new approaches to detection, diagnosis, imaging, prevention, and treatment.In vitroin vivo
Studies in cancer genetics are providing unprecedented insight into the development and evolution of cancer and are generating knowledge about the most basic processes involved in the onset of this disease. The NCI has established a number of initiatives to provide infrastructure and stimulate research to define the signatures of cancer cells. These include the Cancer Genome Anatomy Project (CGAP) and its component initiatives. Information generated by CGAP research is available to the scientific community. (More information on CGAP can be found at .) In 1998, the NCI established the Cancer Genetics Network (), a national network of centers specializing in the study of inherited predisposition to cancer. The Network supports collaborative investigations into the genetic basis of cancer susceptibility, mechanisms to integrate this new knowledge into medical practice, and means of addressing the associated psychosocial, ethical, legal, and public health issues. The Cancer Family Registries for Breast and Colorectal Cancers () provide resources for investigating genetic and environmental susceptibility for these cancers. The Registries also support investigations in genetic epidemiology, including the identification and characterization of genes and gene-gene and gene-environment interactions that are important to susceptibility to breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancers. To identify and evaluate molecular biomarkers and technologies for earlier detection and risk assessment of all major cancers, the NCI established the Early Detection Research Network (). This national network of investigators in the laboratory and clinical sciences, biostatistics, informatics, and public health are already developing new approaches that may result in new, noninvasive screening approaches. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/CGAP/ http://cancercontrol.cancer.gov/CGN/ http://epi.grants.cancer.gov/CFR/ http://www3.cancer.gov/prevention/cbrg/edrn/
TRENDS IN CANCER
As the U.S. population continues to increase and age, and despite continuing decreases in cancer incidence and mortality, cancer will continue to be an increasing burden on our health care systems for the foreseeable future. Accurate information about the incidence and impact of the disease are critical to decision making in science and public health. Within the NCI, the Surveillance Research Program collects and disseminates information on changing U.S. cancer trends (). In 2000, NCI's surveillance efforts were expanded to cover a broader spectrum of the racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, and cultural diversity of our country. The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program will add four new population-based registries in geographic areas populated by minorities and medically underserved groups to better capture cancer information on these populations. This expansion also includes coverage of states with high cancer mortality and will expand the U.S. population covered from 14 to 24%. The NCI maintains an (), which was launched in 1999. It is a unique resource showing the geographic patterns of cancer death rates in more than 3,000 counties across the country over more than four decades. Current collaborations among the NCI, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the American Cancer Society, the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries, and the National Center for Health Statistics will be enhanced to produce data specific to national, state, and regional areas. These initiatives will improve our national cancer surveillance infrastructure and will provide high-quality cancer incidence data to be used in analysis and reporting based on SEER and non-SEER registry systems. http://seer.cancer.gov/ Atlas of Cancer Mortality in the United States, 1950-94 http://www3.cancer.gov/atlasplus/
Clinical Research
The NCI supports a broad program of clinical research to develop new agents and novel approaches for the prevention, early detection, and treatment of cancer. Clinical trials to evaluate improved and novel prevention, detection, and treatment strategies are carried out within a clinical trials infrastructure that includes the NCI Cancer Centers, Cooperative Groups, Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs), and the Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) and minority-based CCOPs. The Institute is currently in the process of fundamentally changing the ways that it develops, reviews, conducts, and supports cancer clinical trials. The revitalized system is more flexible and more inclusive, inviting input from basic and clinical researchers, community and research oncologists, patients and families, and all groups with a commitment to improving cancer care. The new system will speed new ideas from the laboratory to the clinic, increase physician and patient participation, and streamline administration and data reporting. The NCI's efforts to build the new clinical trials system fall into five categories: generating new ideas, broadening access for physicians and patients, educating and communicating, streamlining procedures, and automating data systems.
The NCI supports patient-oriented research in cancer prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment, including studies in nutrition, chemoprevention, biobehavioral influences on disease, cancer screening, pain control, complementary and alternative medicine, cancer survivorship, and understanding health disparities. A number of recently launched initiatives address ways to improve the quality of cancer care. These include the Cancer Care Outcomes Research and Surveillance Consortium (CanCORS), launched in 1999; the Breast Cancer and Colorectal Cancer Surveillance Consortiums; SEER; patterns of care studies; and the HMO Cancer Research Network. These and other quality-of-care initiatives are coordinated from the Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences (). http://cancercontrol.cancer.gov
Cancer Information
The NCI provides information to cancer patients, health and research professionals, and the public in a variety of formats. The most recent, complete, and reliable information to assist cancer patients, their families, and their health care providers in making decisions about cancer prevention, detection, treatment, and follow-up care is available through print publications and audiovisual materials designed for many cultural and literacy levels; from the Cancer Information Service's (CIS's) toll-free number, 800-4-CANCER; and through its Web site resources, including the CancerNet (http://cancernet.nci.nih.gov) and CancerTrials () Web sites. Other sites across the Institute provide information about ongoing research programs and activities. The Office of Cancer Survivorship () provides information for researchers and survivors, including an overview of current research, funding and training opportunities, and new research directions, as well as a resource list of programs for survivors and links to related articles, data (including cancer prevalence data), and press releases. http://www.cancer.gov/clinicaltrials http://dccps.nci.nih.gov/ocs/
In May 2000, the NCI's communications activities were restructured and expanded by the creation of an integrated, technology-based Office of Communications. The new organization will enhance the Institute's capabilities in Web design and evaluation, maximize the use of emerging technologies, optimize the ability to provide information to people with questions about cancer, and increase the NCI's ability to form partnerships with outside organizations. Research programs funded by the NCI's Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences coordinate and support research in Health Communication and Informatics; and Health Promotion Research. Examples of initiatives in progress or under development include funding for Centers of Excellence in Cancer Communications Research (), Digital Divide Pilot Projects, and projects focused on maximizing effective communication about cancer through message tailoring, as well as a demonstration project with the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to enhance consumers' and patients' use of information about health care quality. http://cancercontrol.cancer.gov/communicationcenters/
ADDRESSING HEALTH DISPARITIES
The NCI is strongly committed to reducing cancer-related health disparities across the cancer continuum, from prevention to end-of-life care. The Institute supports research to understand the complex causes of disparities in cancer risk, incidence, and mortality, including socioeconomic, cultural, environmental, institutional, behavioral, and biological factors. The NCI also devotes resources to the application of research, education and training programs, and working with underserved communities to translate research evidence into improved health outcomes. As a partner in the national cancer effort, the NCI is also planning new initiatives with other Federal agencies, local governments, and private entities to disseminate effective, evidence-based interventions to reduce cancer-related health disparities and improve the health and well-being of underserved communities. Many of these initiatives are described in the FY2002 Plans and Priorities for Cancer Research (), published in the fall of 2000. The Institute's overall goal is to understand the causes of health disparities in cancer and to develop effective interventions to eliminate these disparities. http://plan2002.cancer.gov/infreduce.htm
As part of the implementation of the Strategic Plan to Reduce Health Disparities (http://crchd.nci.nih.gov/pdf/Strategic_Plan_and_Budget.pdf), the NCI has created the Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities. The Center will provide an organizational locus for the critical tasks needed to translate discovery into delivery. A number of initiatives are either in place or being established. Of high priority is a project focusing on understanding the causes of and developing interventions to address high rates of cervical cancer in rural communities. Expansion of the SEER cancer registry to cover more of the diversity of the United States will provide better information for tracking trends in health disparities. In 2000, the Special Populations Networks for Cancer Awareness Research and Training (http://crchd.nci.nih.gov/initiatives/spn/) funded 18 grants at 17 institutions to create or implement cancer control, prevention, research, and training programs in minority and underserved communities. The cooperative relationships established by the Networks will be used to foster cancer awareness activities, support minority enrollment in clinical trials, and encourage and promote the development of minority junior biomedical researchers. This initiative, one of the largest of its kind in the Federal Government, is designed to encourage people from the community to work with scientists to find ways of addressing important questions about the burden of cancer in minority and underserved communities. Training programs such as the Comprehensive Minority Biomedical Program (CMBP) and the Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences (CURE), which target high-school through post-doctoral students through established researchers, work to increase the number of minority scientists in biomedical research and enhance the careers of those already in the field.
BREAST CANCER
Despite significant advances in detection, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, breast cancer continues to have a devastating impact on American women. By the end of 2001, almost 192,200 women are expected to have been diagnosed with breast cancer and nearly 40,200 to have died of the disease. An estimated 2.17 million women in the United States are living with breast cancer today, and thousands of women continue to lose their lives to the disease each year. SEER data indicate that breast cancer is the leading type of new cancer cases among women and, after lung cancer, the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women.
The increase in breast cancer incidence that began in the 1990s continues today. Statistics from the NCI's SEER Program reveal that the incidence of breast cancer, although still increasing, has slowed dramatically since 1990. Overall, breast cancer mortality rates also have shown an encouraging downward trend, dropping 2.1% per year from 1990 to 1997. This trend suggests that improved breast cancer management, from early detection to treatment, is having a beneficial effect. Still, the improvements in numbers of new cases and deaths from breast cancer have been less pronounced in non-white women than for white women.
BIOLOGY AND GENETICS
The successful development of molecular diagnostics depends on the availability of tumor tissue specimens. The NCI Cooperative Human Tissue Network (CHTN) provides researchers with access to approximately 9,000 cases of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue samples with associated pathology and clinical data. These samples are particularly well suited to validation studies of diagnostic and prognostic markers. More information is available at . The NCI Clinical Trials Cooperative Groups have banked tumor specimens from a large number of uniformly treated cancer patients.Specimen Resources: http://cbctr.nci.nih.gov
The application of comprehensive molecular analysis technologies to the development of profiles of molecular changes in tumor specimens holds the promise of changing the practice of oncology. DNA array technology has recently been used to establish profiles of gene expression in a series of breast cancer specimens. The analysis results in an easily visualized clustering of specimens that have similar patterns of gene expression and provides a relative measure of the similarity of the expression patterns between any two specimens. Identification of clusters of genes that are expressed in different cell types or are associated with cell proliferation have demonstrated that this technology will allow exploration of potentially important interactions between different cell types in tumors.Molecular Profiling:
Estrogens influence the growth, differentiation, and function of the human reproductive system and stimulate the proliferation and metastatic activity of nearly 40% of breast tumors. Because many breast tumors express estrogen receptors (ERs), and because this expression can affect prognosis as well as provide targets for therapy, cancer researchers are critically interested in the role of estrogens and ERs in breast cancer. For the past decade, researchers have believed that cells express only one type of ER. The recent discovery of a second ER, however, revealed that each of these two receptors, now referred to as ER-alpha and ER-beta, activate target genes differentially. Researchers are now pursuing clues about how each receptor actually activates target genes. Efforts with high potential significance include work on co-activators and repressors of ER.Estrogen Receptors:
About 5% of the new cases of breast cancer that occur each year are related to heritable factors. Studies of women with a family history of breast cancer have revealed that alterations in two genes, and , increase the risk of developing breast cancer.and Gene Mutations:BRCA1BRCA2BRCA1BRCA2
Scientists know that and are tumor suppressor genes that, when working correctly, prevent some stage of tumor development. Investigators have gained insights into two major cancer-associated functions of : 1) a deficiency in cell cycle check points and 2) amplification of centrosomes. Centrosomes are cellular structures involved in the distribution of genetic material during cell division. Abnormalities in centrosomes can therefore explain the most commonly observed genetic abnormalities in cancer cells-the presence of extra copies of chromosomes carrying oncogenes or the loss of chromosomes that harbor tumor suppressor genes. Further, and mutations appear in only a few inherited tumors-never in sporadic (noninherited) cancers and never in normal tissue-indicating that their function is highly specific. Beyond these facts, there is as yet little scientific consensus about how these two genes work.BRCA1BRCA2BRCA1BRCA1BRCA2
One hypothesis is that and are "caretaker" genes; that is, they are responsible for ensuring that the cells in which they reside replicate appropriately. Mutation of a caretaker gene does not cause cancer directly but rather induces genetic instabilities that in turn lead to cancer-causing mutations in other genes. Scientists believe that such tumors will respond favorably to agents that induce the type of genomic damage that is normally detected or repaired by the particular caretaker gene involved. For example, mouse embryos that lack are unusually sensitive to radiation, implying that human tumor cells with defective copies of may also be unusually sensitive to radiation and that these tumors may therefore be highly amenable to radiation treatment.BRCA1BRCA2BRCA2BRCA2
Although women who have inherited a germline mutation in the gene have an increased risk of developing breast cancer over that of the general population, actual disease occurrence varies greatly among women with the mutation. This is because other genes, particularly those involved in endocrine signaling, are thought to modify this risk. For example, studies of the effects of repeat-length polymorphism found in exon 1 of the androgen receptor gene suggest that pathways involving androgen signaling may affect the risk of -associated breast cancer.BRCA1BRCA1BRCA1
RISK FACTORS
Research is underway to identify genetic changes that predispose to the development of breast cancer among families with breast, ovarian, and/or colon cancer. These studies will explore interactions between genes and between genes and the environment that may contribute to cancer risk among families participating in the Cooperative Family Registries for Cancer Studies (CFBCRS). Initiated in 1995, the CFBCRS now includes data from more than 5,000 families, providing researchers with biological and data resources needed to explore key questions about inherited mutations in cancer susceptibility genes. The registry also provides follow-up data on epidemiology, data on recurrence, and new morbidity and mortality in the participating families. Additional information on the CFRBCS can be found at .Genetic Factors: http://epi.grants.cancer.gov/CFR/
The Cancer Genetics Network, a group of collaborative clinical centers of excellence in cancer genetics, will provide another venue for examining these issues. In addition, the network centers will participate in the development and testing of interventions to better prevent, detect, and treat breast cancer among individuals at high risk (including genetic risk). Located in several areas of the United States, the network centers will collaborate on a variety of studies of familial cancer and cancer susceptibility, including environmental exposures that may interact with susceptibility genes.
The incidence of breast cancer is substantially lower in Asian countries than in the United States. A possible explanation for this difference is that Asian women consume much greater amounts of soy-based foods than do American women. Isoflavonoids, which are present in soy foods, are structurally similar to estradiol, a mammalian estrogen. It has been hypothesized that isoflavonoids may influence the risk of breast cancer. Overnight urine samples collected from women participating in a cohort study in China were analyzed for major isoflavonoids. Levels of these isoflavonoids in urine were substantially lower in women who had been diagnosed with breast cancer than in control women. These results support the hypothesis that a high intake of soy foods may reduce the risk of breast cancer.Diet:
Physical activity, body mass index, and weight change are being intensively studied for their relationship to the risk of breast cancer. Multidisciplinary projects are attempting to assess how alcohol and tobacco use, physical activity, obesity, dietary factors, hormones, estrogen metabolism, and susceptibility factors may interact in the etiology of breast cancer. Methodologic research is assessing how best to measure physical activity during work and recreation, seasonally, and over women's life spans.Other Lifestyle Factors:
Investigators recently evaluated the relationship between sex steroid hormone levels in plasma and the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women in a nested case-control study within the Nurses' Health Study. The researchers found statistically significant associations between the increased risk of breast cancer and circulating levels of the hormones estradiol, estrone sulfate, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. These associations were substantially stronger among women who had never received hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Together with past epidemiologic and animal studies, these results strongly suggest a causal relationship between postmenopausal estrogen levels and the risk of breast cancer.Hormones:
Prolactin, a polypeptide hormone, is essential for the development of mammary glands and for lactation. Administration of exogenous prolactin enhances the rates at which mammary tumors develop in animals. In a recently completed nested case-control study within the Nurses' Health Study cohort, a significant positive association was observed between the levels of prolactin in plasma and the risk of postmenopausal breast cancer. This association was independent of plasma levels of sex steroids. It may be that the increase in prolactin levels associated with estrogen use and with certain medications (e.g., reserpine) have a role in the increased risk of breast cancer seen among women with long-term use of these compounds. The positive relationship observed between prolactin levels and breast cancer is similar in magnitude to that observed for plasma estrogens and warrants further, detailed evaluation.
Recently published data from the Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Interventions (PEPI) trial show that about one-quarter of women who use HRT that includes progestin and about 8% of those taking estrogen-only therapy have an increase in breast density on their mammograms. It is not known whether increased breast density due to HRT carries the same risk as having naturally dense breasts, but increased breast density from HRT does make it more difficult for a radiologist to read some mammograms. Studies have suggested that such a reduction could lead to about a 30% increase in follow-up mammographic studies and an increase in breast biopsies. One retrospective study showed that short-term cessation of HRT improves mammographic accuracy. This strategy may be useful for women undergoing screening mammography or in lieu of immediate biopsy for some women with inconclusive mammograms. Recent evidence suggests that women who have long-term exposure (more than 10 years) to HRT may have a slightly increased risk of developing breast cancer, but this is not known to be linked to the increases in breast density that may occur. HRT has also been studied in relation to breast cancer risk in research comparing use of estrogen-progestin with estrogen alone. This study used follow-up data from 46,000 women who participated in the Breast Cancer Detection Demonstration Project (BCDDP), a nationwide breast cancer screening program conducted between 1973 and 1980. Compared with non-users of HRT, the relative risk for breast cancer among women who had used hormones during the previous 4 years increased by 8% per year for estrogen-progestin therapy and by 1% for estrogen therapy alone. There was no increase in risk among women who had stopped either therapy for more than 4 years.
The NCI has a broad and wide-ranging research program of laboratory and epidemiologic investigations into the links between breast cancer and exposures to pesticides, air pollution, drinking water contaminants, electromagnetic and ionizing radiation, and lifestyle and other factors. Because environmental exposures are indirect, are experienced passively, and often occurred a long time in the past, it is difficult to quantify the long-term dose to any individual. A major thrust of current research work is focused on biomarker approaches (genetic, molecular, cellular, and tissue or organ specific) as one way to assess internal dose. Particular interest has been focused on identifying markers of cancer risk, for example, detecting and quantifying influential environmental exposures, as indicators of mechanisms relating exposures and cancer or as measurements of individual susceptibility to cancer. Research is being conducted to measure the estrogenicity of environmental chemical exposures to identify additional chemicals and mixtures to be brought under study in the future, and markers of exposure are being developed and validated.Environmental Factors:
Categories and specific examples of research currently supported include identification of geographic areas with increased breast cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality and potential contributions of local environmental factors. Among these projects is an extensive breast cancer case-control study among residents of Long Island, New York, undertaken by the NCI with the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). The Long Island Breast Cancer Study Project (LIBCSP) is examining the possible association of breast cancer risk with exposures to contaminated drinking water; indoor and ambient air pollution, including pesticide levels in household dust; electromagnetic fields; and hazardous and municipal wastes. In 1999, NCI awarded a 5-year contract to develop a health-related geographic information system (GIS) for Long Island (). The prototype health-related GIS will provide researchers with a new tool to investigate relationships between breast cancer and the environment on Long Island and to estimate exposures to environmental contamination. More information on the LIBCSP, including descriptions of the ongoing studies, can be found at . http://www.healthgis-li.com http://epi.grants.cancer.gov/LIBCSP/
In addition, the NCI and the CDC are jointly following a group of farm families accidentally exposed to high levels of polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) during the 1970s to look at a variety of health outcomes, including risk for breast cancer. Chemicals traditionally associated with agriculture (e.g., pesticides and fertilizers) can now be commonly found in urban areas. In collaboration with the NIEHS and the Environmental Protection Agency, the NCI launched in 1994 the nation's largest study of farmers and their families. The Agricultural Health Study has identified about 100,000 farmers and their spouses and children to assess exposures and cancer (and non-cancer) health outcomes.
Ionizing radiation in high doses is a well-established risk factor for breast cancer. Current research focuses on the specific effects of diagnostic, therapeutic, and occupational exposure to ionizing radiation in established cohorts such as X-ray technologists, ataxia-telangiectasia carriers, and A-bomb survivors. Multidisciplinary investigations are focusing on genetic susceptibility to radiation carcinogenesis and the interactions of radiation dose,hormonal factors, and genetic factors. Scientists have found that women with scoliosis (abnormal curvature of the spine) who were exposed to multiple diagnostic X-rays during childhood and adolescence may be at increased risk of developing breast cancer. The researchers found that the risk of developing breast cancer increased significantly with the number of X-rays and the cumulative radiation dose.Radiation:
Non-ionizing radiation (electromagnetic-field) exposure has been hypothesized to affect breast cancer risk through changes in melatonin levels that affect estrogen secretion. Current research is measuring electromagnetic-field exposure in several cohorts, including teachers in California, nurses in several areas of the United States, and women included in the Long Island Breast Cancer Study Project.
EARLY DETECTION AND DIAGNOSIS
Important advances in imaging systems are being applied to the detection of breast cancer. The NCI is funding research on a variety of technologies for breast imaging, including digital mammography, elastography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), a number of ultrasound techniques, positron emission tomography (PET), single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using a number of compounds designed to look at molecular biological and metabolic characteristics, and optical technologies emphasizing the use of the near-infrared region of the spectrum.Imaging Technologies:
Projects being funded include a multi-center, international clinical trial on the use of MRI in the detection of breast cancer. Nearly 700 patients have been accrued at 10 centers in this trial to test MRI as a tool to decrease the number of false-positive X-ray mammograms that lead to biopsy. The NCI is also funding a multi-center trial of breast MRI as a screening test for breast cancer in women at high risk for breast cancer. In 1999, the NCI initiated funding of a large, 5-year project combining the development of four of the above technologies, all of which will be tested in a group of interested women presenting for mammography. Ongoing research in 11 digital mammography projects includes X-ray source and digital detector development, image optimization and interpretation studies, and studies of impact and cost.
One of the most promising research areas for improving early detection of breast cancer, digital mammography uses X-rays like conventional mammography, but data are collected on a computer instead of on film. This means that the image can be computer enhanced and specific areas magnified. Computer algorithms can screen digital mammograms, detecting suspicious areas that human review might miss. One such computer detection system has now been approved by the FDA. Extensive effort is required for the successful development, testing, and implementation of digital mammography displays and work station design for image interpretation. In 1999, the NCI released Program Announcements soliciting research applications to overcome problems with digital mammography design. The first digital mammography system was approved for clinical use, based on safety and effectiveness in clinical trials, by the FDA in March 2000.Digital mammography:
The NCI is supporting the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN), a national, multi-institutional network for cooperative studies in diagnostic imaging. Studies in breast cancer form an important part of the research agenda of the network and are aided by collaborative arrangements with the clinical cooperative groups. In 2001, ACRIN will begin a large trial to compare digital mammography with conventional film mammography. Included will be 19 sites using digital mammography machines from four manufacturers. A total of 49,000 women will be recruited into the trial, the results of which are expected in about 3 years.Other diagnostic imaging initiatives:
To speed the development of new imaging methods, the NCI has created the Small Animal Imaging Resource Program (SAIRP). Five centers are developing and applying a wide variety of functional, quantitative imaging modalities, and five additional centers will be added in 2001. Quantitating imaging data for small animals will lead the way to methods that can be applied in humans. Many initiatives link technology with research through partnerships with industry and through Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) mechanisms.
Breast cancer is predominantly a disease of the elderly, who could significantly reduce their mortality rates with regular use of mammography. A recently released national telephone survey conducted by the NCI and the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) indicates that, although the rate of mammography screening among women ages 65 and older has increased by 25% since 1992, misconceptions about breast cancer risk and the potential benefit from regular breast cancer screening are prevalent among older women. The NCI and HCFA have formed a partnership to raise awareness about regular mammography screening and of the expanded mammography screening benefit for Medicare beneficiaries among women ages 65 and older. The partnership's efforts are expanding to increase the number of providers who refer female Medicare beneficiaries ages 65 and older for screening mammograms. The NCI and HCFA will work with professional medical organizations to increase awareness among providers and will develop materials that facilitate communication between providers and patients about mammography and breast cancer.Programs to Increase Mammography Use:
Because metastatic cancer most often spreads first to sentinel lymph nodes, many axillary lymph nodes are usually dissected to assist in diagnosing the stage of disease. More than 80% of women who undergo a complete axillary dissection have at least one complication after surgery, including lymphedema (swelling in the arm caused by excess fluid buildup), numbness, persistent burning sensation, infection, and limited movement of the shoulder. Although research suggests that the sentinel nodes (one or a few lymph nodes) can be used to determine whether cancer has spread to other lymph nodes, it has yet to be determined what the impact of removing only the sentinel node will have on cancer control and survival. Two studies are now ongoing in which the effects of sentinel node biopsy are being compared with the standard practice of removing a much larger number of axillary lymph nodes. One of these studies is examining whether sentinel lymph node biopsy can replace axillary lymph node dissection in breast cancer patients with negative sentinel nodes. The second study will examine the same issue in women with positive sentinel nodes. Both study groups hope to learn whether long-term survival for patients who do not receive an axillary node dissection differs from that in patients who undergo a complete dissection. The studies will also compare the post-surgical side effects between the two groups.Sentinel Node Biopsy:
PREVENTION
The growth of breast cancers is significantly affected by hormones. Several drugs that partially block the effects of the hormone estrogen on breast tissue are being studied for use as chemopreventive agents. The precedent-setting Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) found that the drug tamoxifen, which has been successful in treating ER-positive breast cancer, decreases the risk of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk of developing the disease. Using data amassed through March 31, 1998, the BCPT showed a 49% reduction in the incidence of breast cancer among the high-risk participants who took tamoxifen. Women taking tamoxifen also had 50% fewer diagnoses of noninvasive breast cancer, such as ductal or lobular carcinoma in situ. Tamoxifen was associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer, pulmonary embolism, and deep-vein thrombosis. Further analysis of the results of the trial showed that younger women at high risk of breast cancer are the most likely to benefit from tamoxifen because their breast cancer risk substantially outweighs the potential for adverse effects of the drug.Chemoprevention:
One of the largest breast cancer prevention studies ever undertaken, the Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR), is currently enrolling participants through more than 500 centers across the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada. STAR is a study of the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, which is supported by the NCI. The study will determine whether the drug raloxifene, which is used for osteoporosis prevention and treatment, is as effective as tamoxifen in reducing the risk of breast cancer while comparing the long-term safety of both drugs. Raloxifene was shown to reduce the incidence of breast cancer in a large osteoporosis trial, the Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) study. Women taking raloxifene in studies of osteoporosis have also shown an increased chance of developing deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, risks similar to those associated with tamoxifen. In these studies, raloxifene did not increase the risk of endometrial cancer. More information on STAR is available at . http://cancertrials.nci.nih.gov/types/breast/prevention/star
Despite inconclusive scientific surveillance data on prophylactic mastectomy, some women who are at high risk for breast cancer make the difficult decision to have both breasts surgically removed. In one recently published study, researchers looked at the long-term outcomes of prophylactic mastectomy among women with a family history of breast cancer who had undergone the surgery at the Mayo Clinic between 1960 and 1993. In this study, prophylactic mastectomy was associated with a reduction in incidence of the disease of at least 90%.Prophylactic Surgery:
Prophylactic removal of the ovaries to decrease the risk of ovarian cancer upon completion of a woman's childbearing has been recommended for women with an inherited risk of breast and ovarian cancer. In a study of women with mutations who had an inherited risk of breast and ovarian cancer, the incidence of breast cancer was compared in those who had undergone prophylactic oophorectomy with those who had not. Prophylactic oophorectomy was found to reduce the risk of breast cancer by about 40% for all women with mutations, and this risk further decreased over time after surgery.BRCA1BRCA1
TREATMENT
Panelists in an NIH Consensus Development Conference on Adjuvant Therapy for Breast Cancer, held in November 2000, agreed that treatment with a combination of chemotherapy drugs improves survival and should be recommended for most women with localized breast cancer. Also recommended was hormonal therapy for women whose tumors are positive for ERs, regardless of these women's age or menopausal status, tumor size, or whether the cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes. Five years of tamoxifen therapy is currently the standard adjuvant hormonal therapy. Women who have undergone mastectomy and who have four or more cancerous lymph nodes or an advanced primary tumor benefit from post-surgical radiation. It is unclear whether women with one to three cancerous lymph nodes benefit from radiation therapy, and this question should be tested in a randomized clinical trial. The panelsts' report is available at .Adjuvant Therapy: http://odp.od.nih.gov/consensus/cons/114/114_intro.htm
About half of all women with early-stage breast cancer (i.e., disease that has not spread to one or more lymph nodes) have ER-negative tumorsand so do not respond to tamoxifen, which acts directly on ERs. A recent study found that these women receive the same benefit from 3 months of a combination chemotherapy regimen consisting of adriamycin plus cyclophosphamide as they do from 6 months of the more widely used regimen of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil. These results indicate that breast cancer patients who do not benefit from the drug tamoxifen can decrease the duration of their drug therapy without diminishing their chances for long-term survival.
An analysis of data gathered in nine studies from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project on adjuvant tamoxifen for treatment of breast cancer showed that the drug is as effective for black women as for white women in reducing the occurrence of contralateral breast cancer. In addition, the drug does not cause more side effects in black women, as was originally suspected. This finding also means that black women who are at increased risk for breast cancer can also benefit from tamoxifen as preventive therapy.Effectiveness of tamoxifen for black and white women:
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) has been diagnosed with rapidly increasing frequency with the advent of modern mammography screening standards. Until the late 1980s, this lesion was treated routinely with mastectomy. However, two studies have transformed the paradigm for treating this disease. An earlier NSABP trial showed that lumpectomy and breast irradiation for early-stage breast cancer achieved survival that was comparable to that with mastectomy. This, along with results of a study of tamoxifen in the therapy of DCIS, indicate that lumpectomy, breast irradiation, and tamoxifen can substitute safely for mastectomy in the treatment of DCIS. Other studies have confirmed that tamoxifen-radiation therapy should remain the standard of care in patients with early stage breast cancers and that tamoxifen reduces the occurrence of contralateral breast cancer.Ductal carcinoma in situ:
Results of a new study have shown that reducing daily radiation therapy from 5 weeks to 3 weeks is equally effective in preventing cancer recurrence in women who have chosen breast conserving therapy. Shortened radiation schedules lessen the overall burden for patients in terms of personal costs, travel, and time off work, as well as for the health care system in reducing costs and freeing resources for use of more patients.Effectiveness of shorter radiation treatment:
Over the past 20 years, more than 15,000 women with breast cancer have been treated with high doses of chemotherapy followed by blood cell transplants, in which cells are removed from the patient before chemotherapy to replace bone marrow damaged by the chemotherapy. Results of two studies released in 1999 showed that this treatment is no more effective than standard chemotherapy for women with advanced or high-risk breast cancer. Results from two studies published in early 2000 support the conclusions of the earlier studies. These later studies were randomized trials, comparing patients who received the high-dose treatments with patients who received standard therapy. Several large, randomized trials are ongoing to determine the survival advantages of the high-dose regimen. The current recommendation is that women should receive high-dose chemotherapy with transplant only as part of a high-priority clinical trial so that they can be followed for several years after treatment.High-dose chemotherapy with blood cell transplant:
Trastuzumab (Herceptin) received FDA approval in September 1998 for the treatment of metastatic breast tumors that overexpress the HER2/neu protein after early trials showed positive results. Phase III studies are now underway to explore whether Herceptin is also effective when used immediately after surgery in earlier-stage disease. These studies are comparing the effectiveness of combination chemotherapies alone or with Herceptin, are combining treatments with tamoxifen for ER-positive tumors, and are addressing concerns about possible cardiac toxicity of the drug.Herceptin:
Buserelin, a drug commonly used to treat prostate cancer, suppresses the ovarian production of estradiol. A recent study indicates that buserelin may prolong survival in premenopausal women with advanced breast cancer for an average of 1 year. ER-positive breast tumors are usually treated with tamoxifen to block estrogen production and as an alternative to removal of the ovaries. Women treated with tamoxifen often develop high levels of the sex hormone estradiol, which is thought to inhibit the action of tamoxifen or even to contribute to the recurrence of breast cancer.Buserelin:
The study of compounds that block angiogenesis-the formation of new blood vessels-represents a promising new avenue of cancer research. About 20 such compounds are currently being tested in early Phase I and II clinical trials, many of which include breast cancer patients. The promise of angiogenesis inhibitors includes the fact that they are less likely than conventional chemotherapeutic agents to cause side effects, including bone marrow suppression, gastrointestinal symptoms, and hair loss. The possibility of drug resistance also appears to be less with these agents because they target normal endothelial cells. Anti-angiogenesis therapy may prove to be useful in combination with therapy aimed directly at tumor cells; early trials with such combinations are now underway.Angiogenesis inhibitors:
Other ongoing therapeutic research includes studies of gene therapy strategies that target key stages of the cell cycle such as programmed cell death by using adenoviral vectors to transfer specific genes; Chemoprotection, a process where bone marrow cells are exposed to a virus containing a drug resistance gene, thereby permitting the administration of both higher and a greater number of doses of drugs that are otherwise toxic to the bone marrow; and various types of immunotherapy designed to stimulate anti-tumor responses.Other Research:
Many women whose breast cancer is treated with chemotherapy experience severe menopausal symptoms as a result of chemotherapy-induced ovarian damage or prophylactic oophorectomy. Physicians are hesitant or unwilling to prescribe HRT for relief of menopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes, in these women because of concern for the possible risk of cancer recurrence. In a recent large, controlled clinical trial, the antidepressant venlafaxine (Effexor) was shown to substantially reduce hot flashes in a majority of the trial participants using half the dose prescribed for relief of depression. Antidepressants offer a new for control of menopausal symptoms for all women.Treatment of Menopausal Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients:
CERVICAL CANCER
Cervical cancer accounts for 6% of all malignancies in women. An estimated 12,900 cases of invasive cervical cancer are expected to be diagnosed in American women in 2001, with about 4,400 deaths from the disease. It is estimated that 90% of these cases could have been detected early through the use of the Pap test and that approximately one-third of eligible women are not having recommended Pap tests for screening cervical abnormalities. Throughout the world, the incidence of cervical cancer is a close second behind that of colorectal cancer as the leading cancers among women. In some developing countries, cervical cancer is the most common cancer and 400,000 new cases are diagnosed annually, predominantly among the economically disadvantaged in both developing and industrialized nations.
The rate of cervical cancer among all U.S. women is about 8 per 100,000. The disease is a particular concern, however, for minority and underserved populations in the United States. Through the Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities, the NCI is leading an initiative focused on the high rate of cervical cancer incidence and mortality in rural, economically distressed regions. These health disparities are of special concern in light of the fact that cervical cancer mortality declined by 45% between the periods 1972-1974 and 1992-1994 and its incidence declined by 43.3% from 1973 to 1995. Although the rate of death from cervical cancer among African Americans has declined more rapidly than that among whites, the African American death rate continues to be more than twice that of whites. The higher African American death rate may be due to the high number of cervical cancer deaths among older black women. The highest age-adjusted incidence of cervical occurs among Vietnamese women, followed by Alaska Native, Korean, and Hispanic women. Many of the racial and ethnic differences may be attributed to differences in known cervical risk factors, including long intervals since last Pap test and factors that increase the risk of infection with human papillomavirus (HPV).
The NCI will convene a Gynecologic Cancers Progress Review Group Roundtable in June 2001 to focus on cervical, ovarian, and endometrial cancers. The Progress Review Group includes 30 prominent members of the scientific, medical, industry, and advocacy communities who have been charged with outlining and prioritizing a national research agenda for gynecologic cancers. These experts will identify priority areas for research, using the NCI's current research program as a baseline. The final report of the Progress Review Group, scheduled to be released in late 2001, will include research priorities and the resources needed to achieve those priorities.
RISK FACTORS
Studies have shown that approximately 90% of cervical cancers and cervical hyperplasias are associated with HPV; primarily types 16, 18, 31, and 45. HPV type 16 is the virus type most commonly detected in tumors, accounting for 50% of cancers and their precursors, high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. Recent studies suggest that HPV-16 variants have various degrees of association with the development of cervical neoplasias. These findings suggest that HPV infection is the primary cause of cervical neoplasia and support the clinical applications of HPV DNA testing and primary prevention of cervical cancer by vaccination.Human Papillomavirus:
Immunologic and other co-factors are the focus of a current, large NCI study in Costa Rica. Investigators have screened about 10,000 women to obtain data on the incidence and prevalence of HPV infection and the co-factors that increase the risk of cervical cancer. These researchers are also evaluating some new diagnostic technologies and are looking at co-factors that may work with HPV to promote carcinogenesis. These co-factors may include immune system functioning, smoking, nutritional factors, hormonal factors, and the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases.Co-Factors:
The risk of dying of cervical cancer increases with age. Rates of cervical carcinoma in situ (cervical cancer that has not invaded surrounding tissues) reach a peak in both black and white women between the ages of 20 and 30 years. The number of cases of invasive cervical cancer increases with age after age 25 in both white women and black women, but it increases strikingly with age only in black women.Age:
Women who have never had a Pap test or who have not had one for several years have a higher-than-average risk of developing cervical cancer.Pap testing:
HPV is a sexually transmitted virus. Women who first had sexual intercourse at an early age or who have had many sexual partners have a higher-than-average risk of developing cervical cancer. Women whose male sexual partners have themselves had many sexual partners are also at increased risk, according to several studies.Sexual history:
The drug diethylstilbestrol (DES) was administered to pregnant women in the United States and Europe between 1938 and the early 1970s to prevent miscarriage or premature delivery. DES has been linked to theDiethylstilbestrol: