Contact
Tattoo-Convention-Hotel-Information
In a city known as a world-class destination, Orlando Florida, this award-winning Orlando hotel establishes a spectacular standard of meeting quality. Exceptional facilities, a highly respected staff and one of Orlando's most beautiful accommodations assure comprehensive, in-house solutions to the meeting needs of groups ranging from 10 to 4,000. A perfect location adjacent to the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando Florida makes Rosen Centre Hotel an ideal headquarters. Impressive meeting capabilities combine with resort-style luxury, minutes from all of Orlando famous attractions. Delegates enjoy a productive business environment and a superb Orlando vacation opportunity. An extensive array of guest services fulfills a variety of needs *Regular transportation to Orlando International Airport with Mears Transportation or by calling Star Taxi: (407) 857-9999 *On-site car rental, gift shop, valet and photo finishing *On-site covered garage provides secure parking *In-room high-speed Internet (Click Here for details) *On-site IKON Business Center offers photocopying, fax, secretarial and other office services The Rosen Centre Hotel in Orlando indulges its guests with an array of superior recreation. The hotel also offers the perfect base to explore Orlando magical attractions, all nearby. Meeting delegates can easily expand their business trip into once-in-a-lifetime family vacations. Extended stay packages feature specially discounted rates and flexible scheduling. A large pool, whirlpool and wading pool make a perfect setting for relaxation, play and sunbathing. Lighted tennis courts ensure players can conveniently schedule matches around meeting activities. Adjacent to the Orange County Convention Center, Rosen Centre Hotel is just 12 minutes from Orlando International Airport. Guests enjoy easy proximity to all theme park attractions, golf and shopping. Rosen Centre Hotel, adjacent to the Orange County Convention Center. *On world-famous International Drive *Adjacent to the Orange County Convention Center *Only 12 minutes from Orlando International Airport *5 minutes to SeaWorld Adventure Park and Universal Orlando Resort *10 minutes to Walt Disney WorldResort *15 minutes from Orlando Downtown *One block from Pointe Orlando shopping & entertainment complex *Surrounded by unique shops and themed restaurants
The Rosen Center 9840 International Drive Orlando, FL 32819 For Reservations: (800) 204-7234