 
STAY OFF ICE ON LAKES AND PONDS
New Yorkers are warned against going onto or near the ice of ponds and lakes. Determining the strength of ice is extremely difficult, especially for an untrained individual. Ice must be at least six inches thick before it can maintain the weight of a person, and to freeze to the right thickness, the temperature must be well below freezing for weeks. Ice strength is affected by the depth of the water, the size of the water body, the water’s chemistry, the distribution of weight on the ice, and local climatic factors. To remind people of the dangers of thin ice, Parks & Recreation posts warning signs along the perimeter of the City’s lakes and ponds. Special ladders and ropes are also installed around the edges for trained personnel to use in the event of an emergency.
New York City's Parks & Recreation offers the following Ice Safety Tips:
Never go on frozen waters (unless clearly marked otherwise with official signs).
Parents and caregivers should make sure children are never unattended near ice.
If you hear cracking, lie down immediately to try to distribute your weight.
If you witness someone falling through ice, never attempt to make a rescue by yourself. Call 911 and notify the proper authorities. Be sure to give the exact location and an account of the incident.
The following ice-skating rinks in parks throughout the city offer a safe way to celebrate the cold weather: Wollman Rink and Lasker Rink in Central Park, Abe Stark on Coney Island, Kate Wollman Rink in Prospect Park, City Building in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, and War Memorial on Staten Island. As soon as the ice is strong enough, Parks & Recreation will designate safe-skating areas in large spray shower basins and other shallow water spots throughout the five boroughs. Signs will be clearly posted to show that these areas are safe for winter sports.
For locations and times of winter activities in New York City parks visit . www.nyc.gov/parks
Copyright 2006 The City of New York