Patch of the Colorado State Patrol.
Logo of the Colorado State Patrol.
Badge of the Colorado State Patrol.
Agency Overview
681 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
255 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
Colonel Mark V. Trostel, Chief
Parent agency
Colorado Department of Public Safety
Facilities
Main article: Law and government of Colorado
The (originally known as the ), based in , is a division of the , and is one of the official agencies of , along with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation and several smaller state agencies. The Colorado State Patrol primarily enforces traffic laws on state highways and guards the state capitol and the governor of Colorado.Colorado State PatrolColorado State Highway Courtesy Patrol Lakewood, Colorado Colorado Department of Public Safety state police Colorado
Contents
[] edit History
Founded in 1935 with only 44 men, it was one of only four law enforcement agencies serving in at the time. Since two-way radios weren't installed until 1949, officers usually received calls by visiting local gas stations. After dispatchers telephoned the station, the attendant would then place a red flag along the roadway, which would alert the officers to the call. Colorado
The patrol was met with opposition from the public when it was formed, as well as from other law enforcement agencies, who thought the patrol would endanger their jurisdiction. Therefore, Colorado legislature carefully outlined the duties of the agency in the Patrol Act, which states that "it shall be their duty to promote safety, protect human life and preserve the highways of Colorado by the intelligent, courteous, and strict enforcement of the laws and regulation of this state relating to highways." This became the motto of the Colorado State Patrol.
[] edit Weapons
The patrols carried handguns until recently. By summer of 2008, the patrol completed it's transition to the .40 which retired the 4006. The 4006 was in service for the last ten years. All Troopers are issued a and are given the option to carry a department owned or personally owned rifle, either a or a . Smith & Wesson Model 4006 .40 S&W Smith & Wesson M&P [] citation needed shotgun M-14 AR-15
[] edit Less-Lethal Weapons
All Troopers are issued a and . Currently one metro Denver troop is in the pilot phase for the . ASP baton OC Taser
[] edit Goals and Mission of the CSP
To provide a safe and secure environment on Colorado's highways.
To secure necessary resources to provide expected customer service.
To provde an environment for employees which is conducive to high quality service.
To maintain a highly trained, motivated, competent, work force providing professional service.
To provide high quality law enforcement service through sharing of resources to maximize taxpayer dollars.
[] edit Mission
Enforce all the laws of the state of Colorado on approximately 8,483 miles (13,652 km) of state highways and more than 57,000 miles (92,000 km) of county roads.
Investigate and report traffic crashes occurring on public property.
Direct, control and regulate motor vehicle traffic on public roadways.
Inspect vehicles for safety-related equipment violations.
Inspect vehicles carrying livestock for brand inspection certificates.
Provide community education and administer safety programs to the public.
Regulate road closures for special events, inclement weather, or when necessary to prevent further injury or damage following an emergency.
Promulgate and enforce rules and regulations for commercial motor vehicles.
Operate a state-wide law enforcement telecommunications system.
Perform criminal interdiction on Colorado highways, focusing on the transport of illegal drugs.
Assist in state homeland security efforts.
Provide emergency assistance in the event of major disasters, civil protests, or when requested by local law enforcement.
The Colorado State Patrol headquarters is located in a nondescript building in Lakewood, Colorado.