(en catalán). Hergé 1000 anys
Paris
Want to know the weather forecast? Go to , look at the map and read the last news. Météo-France
How about traffic conditions in and around Paris, in real time? gives you maps that are permanently updated, and the time you need to reach the airports. Sytadin
will give you very comprehensive information about what's happening in the French capital. English text available. You'll find temporary exhibitions, and all expected info on museums, public transportation and much more. A good site indeed. Les pages de Paris
And if you want to have a look at (in French), pay a visit to the site of Marie-Christine Milot: she reconstructed Paris as it was in the XIIth century. (URL updated March 2000). Mediaeval Paris
Ray tracing
You can make virtual images using geometric modelling. The best - free of charge! program is . It requires a little understanding of three-dimensional constructive geometry, and a fast Macintosh, or Unix machine, or even Intel-based PC. You can produce photo-realistic scenes of completely irrealistic situations. Unfold your creative power! Persistence of Vision
A master: . His pages in English or French are full of poetry and imagination, and have a very strong technical basis at the same time. Incredible results. Gilles Tran
Another master: (German and English). Many examples, with some focus on architecture. Also, excellent tutorial pages (DE, EN, FR, IT) on POV. Friedrich Lohmüller
The page with incredible still and animated images. Not all pictures are made with POV, many are using other 3 D rendering software. Internet Ray-Tracing Competition
of Switzerland has very useful pages explaining the intricacies of light in POV. Reynald
Les pages en de , élégantes malgré une orthographe désastreuse, offrent de bons exemples et des explications pour les débutants.français Louis Bel
See my own page (viel bescheidener). Raytracing
You must be blind if you have not yet noticed that I am a Mac fan. Here a few useful links for the serious Macintosh user:Apple
For excellent pages revolving around the (now monochrome, but going stronger than ever) Apple, see a (Swiss) site in French. Pomme à jour
software. Mac OS X
provides plenty of useful software. VersionTracker
One of the very best pieces of shareware for the Mac is Thorsten Lemke's . If you don't have it (I can't imagine you don't), or if you have not paid the modest shareware fee, visit Thorsten's site. Graphic Converter
And of course, here is the direct access to itself. Apple
Animal Photography
Many good pictures of tigers, lynx, giraffes, apes, birds and more, taken by of Germany. Ralf Schmode
Quizzzs
Vous trouverez différents types de quizzs, réalisés principalement sous Excel, qui vous permettront de tester votre culture audiovisuelle et générale. Les quizzs de ce site incorporent un contrôleur de syntaxe qui vous permet de savoir si vous êtes proche ou non de la solution. Vous n'avez donc plus à craindre les erreurs d'orthographe. sur ce site
Artificial intelligence
Amazing : you think of an object, and the AI programme begins asking questions. In usually less than 20 questions, the programme finds your object. You can play in English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Chinese and in 14 more languages... 20Q
I searched (again) the web for classic cars, there are now many sites most of them being commercial pages selling American cars. A few better suggestions below.Classic cars
Phil Seed's with scans of brochures of various makes and models of cars (1950 - 1970), photographs and a variety of automobilaria. Good quality pictures. Mostly European cars. Well written, concise legends or explanations. virtual car museum
Les : une collection impressionnante de voitures d'entre-deux-guerres. Pas trouvé le nom de l'auteur... A splendid collection with first class photographs of vintage cars, mostly 1920 to 1950. Good comments in French and English. belles d'antan
I also created my small museum from Hergé's albums : . Tintin's cars
in French. This is the road that linked Paris with the French Riviera before the motorway (autoroute du sud, aka A6) was built. Nationale 7
I like especially . Ckick on the yellow car as an example before you go to his Thierry Dubois site.
: annuaire européen (surtout français) des sites. Très complet. Automobiles de collection
françaises des années 1950 et 60. Voitures populaires
Les , pages from Québec in English and French, although there is hardly any text, but many reasonably good pictures.. voitures européennes d'autrefois
photo-archives (90 % British cars) many pictures, no text. Old Classic Cars
The many pictures, little text. Classic and Vintage Car pages
Hundreds of mostly , but many of them "customised", i.e. altered, chopped, painted with flames, fitted with stainless steel modern wheels etc. With some patience, also a few originals. A few European automobiles as well, usually not well characterised, all pictures taken in America. The site is useful if you want to check a particular model. Goto . American cars index of pics
Note: if any of the above links doesn't work any more, be kind enough to send me an , so I can correct this page. e-mail
Just click the iMac (Requires JavaScript)Information about your computer
Home