Experienced Faculty
 EDUCATING THOSE WHO SERVE
AMU students are active, working adults in the military, public safety and national security sectors, and beyond. Founded to provide relevant and affordable education to the military, AMU today serves a variety of students seeking liberal arts and professional studies degrees, and we place special program emphasis on programs in homeland security, national security, intelligence, and emergency and disaster management. Everyone associated with the University shares a passion for providing curriculum, class delivery, and service uniquely designed to meet the needs of those who serve others in their communities.
CUTTING EDGE, RELEVANT PROGRAMS
It's all about career-relevant options  whether youre seeking knowledge and skills that will benefit you in your civilian or military career or help you transition into a completely different field. AMU offers an impressive curriculum with more than 50 undergraduate and graduate degree programs including one of the most comprehensive military studies and national security curricula outside the Department of Defense. Other specialty courses in strategic intelligence, homeland security, security management, and transportation and logistics management cover just a few of the degrees our students pursue.
Click here for a complete listing of degree programs.
AFFORDABILITY
Despite significant rate hikes commonly found throughout the industry, AMU has maintained modest tuition levels for our undergraduate and graduate courses. This, while maintaining a commitment to continuous quality assessment of our academic programs and providing the best distance learning environment possible for our students. 
In fact, AMU has established a book grant so that undergraduate students do not have to purchase their own books or pay shipping costs, regardless of where they are located. This represents a huge savings for our students, since typical course material costs at a university can total several thousand dollars over the period of the students enrollment. This grant is available to all AMU undergraduate students who are seeking academic credit for their courses, and is applicable throughout a students enrollment in the undergraduate program.
See the for more details. tuition and fees section
CONVENIENCE & FLEXIBILITY
At AMU, the individual matters. We are here to serve you, and we help you work your studies around your everyday commitments. The asynchronous course delivery means no specific login times are required. Simply log on and download your assignments when its convenient for you during the week.
At AMU, you can progress through your degree path faster. First, courses start monthly, because we know your personal commitments dont always align with a traditional semester schedule. Second, we offer and week sessions for many classes, so you have the option to take more intense, 8-week courses when your schedule allows. Finally, you wont have to worry that a course you sign up for will be dropped at the last minute due to low enrollment.816
EXPERIENCED FACULTY
Our faculty combines relevant theory with real-world experience. Their academic credentials include such institutions as the University of Chicago, University of Notre Dame, Stanford University, Cambridge University, and Harvard University. Many are executives in government, business and non-profit organizations, including the United Nations, the State Department, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. . Search the Faculty Directory
AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the  and nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council
2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 | |  | | | |  |