Once the rest stop for travelers along the Spanish Trail, Lake Las Vegas now offers the tops in entertainment, dining and shopping. Nearby MonteLago Village, with its picturesque, Mediterranean-themed village, offers a fantastic array of shops. Nestled among the winding cobblestone streets are one-of-a-kind shops and galleries. No matter what your culinary preference, you'll be able to satisfy your cravings in this casually elegant atmosphere.
World-class golf venues adjoin With three waterfalls, lush landscape and beautiful views of Lake Las Vegas, Reflection Bay Golf Club is an acclaimed Jack Nicklaus signature design golf course. The Falls Golf Club, designed by Tom Weiskopf, serves up traditional desert golf for the front nine and a dramatic elevation change with breathtaking mountain views for the back nine. The Ritz-Carlton.
Lace up your hiking boots and head for Red Rock Canyon where red sandstone and gray limestone layers create magnificent natural sand art and the hiking is at its best. The Valley of Fire boasts brilliant red sandstone formations constructed by nature. One of America's most popular national parks and year-round water sports playground is Lake Mead National Recreational Area. The Mojave, the Great Basin and the Sonora Deserts all meet there - making for an amazing photography location for wildlife. It is also the home to one of the greatest engineering works in history, the Hoover Dam, towering over the Colorado River.
As the name suggests, this is still Las Vegas where the casino is one of the favorite places for visitors. Before you can say, "Hit me!" a quick trip down the road and you'll be on the Las Vegas Strip where the casino action never stops, the lights are bright and the world-class entertainment beckons. Or take a short walk across the bridge to the Casino MonteLago, the perfect combination of the intimacy of the resort and the fun of the Strip. Lake Las Vegas, framed by mountains with a jewel of a lake, is an unspoiled masterpiece.
For Agent/Broker Use Only.