Access to a water supply
Construction materials
Aspect - Sun and Shade
It is also important to take into account any shady areas caused by existing trees and shrubs, hedges and fences and your own, or neighbouring, buildings. If you have shady areas you can still have raised beds so long as you plant them with shade tolerant plants (information on shade gardening and suitable plants can be found at ). gardening in the shade
Accessibility and Pathways
If wheelchair or walking frame access is important allow pathways of 1.2m (4ft) to give you enough room to manoeuvre safely. The pathways themselves should also have a smooth, level surface of concrete or non-slip paving stones to allow ease of movement.
Size of Raised Beds
if you're planning beds at the higher end of the range, use stronger construction materials and techniques as the weight of contained soil will be that much greater.An important point:
A width of 1.2m (4ft) is about right if you can access your raised bed from both sides. Beds that can only be reached from one side will have to be narrower.
Length is more a personal choice and depends on what you want to grow. In the vegetable garden you are likely to be working more intensively so don't make the beds so long that it becomes frustrating walking round to the other side. In the ornamental garden this is less of a problem so you can be more flexible about your design.
Access to a Water Supply
Construction Materials
Wood is an excellent material and fits in well with most garden designs. To keep costs down you can use reclaimed timber - just make sure that it hasn't been treated with toxic preservatives which can leach into the soil.
The simplest wooden beds are made from sturdy planks and these should last for several years before they need replacing. A more permanent solution is to use untreated railway sleepers which look attractive and are solid enough to be stacked quite high wothout becoming unstable.
Brick, stone and concrete blocks are also excellent materials. Although more expensive than wood, their strength and durability mean that you can raise your beds to whatever height you want and easily create visually interesting designs including tiers and curves. Match the brick or stone to your house to create a pleasing unified design. Again, you can save money by using secondhand or reclaimed materials.
If the thought of building your own beds horrifies you, you can now buy ready to use raised bed kits which often come in an interlocking modular form allowing you to easily plan and create interesting designs. Some are made from recycled plastics that look like wood but are more weather resistant and long lasting.
Finally...
" is getting a long overdue make-over (thanks in part to the recent spell of bad winter weather in the UK)!
Web Site Makeover
Enjoy Your Garden
All the information is still available but some pages will appear in the old layout until the transition is completed - so please bear with us.
If you have feedback about the new look you can easily get in touch via our form - we always appreciate your views." Contact Us
Main Menu