Print Article Email Article
Demonstrating subject-area mastery on SAT Subject Tests
Students take the SAT Subject Tests to demonstrate to colleges their mastery of specific subjects such as . The content of each test is not based on any one approach or curriculum but rather evolves to reflect current trends in high school course work.English, history, mathematics, science, and foreign languages
Five general subject areas
The SAT® Program offers Subject Tests that fall into general subject areas.20
English
 
SAT Subject Tests facts
The SAT Subject Tests are offered in the United States and at international sites. six times a year
Students on a single test date.can take one, two, or three tests
Each takes .one hour
All Subject Tests consist of , but some have .multiple-choice questionsunique features or formats
The types of questions change little from year to year.
All Subject Tests are . machine scored
Unique features and formats on SAT Subject Tests
Your students need to be prepared for some differences between the Subject Tests. The in the student area of this site covers these differences in depth. The unique features and formats of the tests include: SAT Subject Tests Preparation Center
Subject Tests inChinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, and Spanish consist of a listening section and a reading section. Students taking these tests must bring an with earphones to the test center.Languages with Listening: acceptable CD player
This test contains 60 general-knowledge multiple-choice questions, followed by 20 multiple-choice questions that emphasize one of the following:Biology E/M:
(Biology E) subject matterEcological
(Biology M) subject matter Students choose the section they feel most prepared for at the start of testing. After completing the 60 core questions, test-takers move on to the section that they chose.  Molecular
This test includes approximately five questions that ask students to evaluate two related statements based on equation balancing and/or predicting chemical reactions. Students answer these five questions in a special section of the answer sheet, labeled "Chemistry."Chemistry:
These tests include questions that cannot be answered without the use of at least a scientific or graphing calculator. Mathematics Subject Tests are developed with the expectation that most students will use a graphing calculator.Mathematics Level 1 and Level 2:
Helping students decide which SAT Subject Tests to take
Help your students decide, including:on the right test for them
Whether to take a listening test
Which Biology emphasisto choose
Which Mathematics level to choose
Customized Entry Pages
View information and tools for each of these professional roles:
SAT Subject Tests and AP Courses
Success on Subject Tests may help students build the confidence to take on courses. Advanced Placement Program (AP)
Quick Links