See how easy it is to install Frameitall Products. Select the product below and watch a short and informative instructional video.
Raised Vegetable Gardens Made Easy
Design and build a robust raised vegetable garden with ease. The makes building a a snap. Youl only need a few tools and a little time and soon youl be enjoying the bountiful vegetables raised bed gardening can offer. patented Frame It All system raised vegetable garden
In addition to your Frame It All Composite Timbers, Anchored Joints and Stacking Joints, the only things youl need are some landscape fabric, a hammer, a tape measure and a Phillips-head screwdriver.What youl need:
Find an open area, with the proper level of sunlight for the vegetables you want to grow. Check our for vegetable-by-vegetable details. Make sure you have adequate space around the bed to be able to reach inside it for weeding and maintenance.Step 1: Find A Space
Know And Grow Guide
Measure out where you plan to place your bed. Make sure it big enough to accommodate the spatial needs of the vegetables you want to grow. Our can help you determine what right for your chosen crops. Mark the area with stakes and string and lay out your Frame It All components to make sure you have everything you need.Step 2: Measure Your Bed
Know And Grow Guide
Frame It All Composite Timbers measure 44.5 Slide your Composite Timber into the channel end of one of the brackets until it is centered and flush on all sides.  Use the supplied screws to fasten the Composite Timber to the bracket as shown in . Repeat this process on the opposite end of the Composite Timbers flipping the bracket in the opposite direction as pictured in (this will save you time later when installing the Timbers). Repeat this process until all of your Composite Timbers are fully bracketed on both ends.Step 3: Assemble Timbers and Brackets
diagram 1diagram 2
Now lay out the base level of design with stake fins facing up as shown in. Design adjustments should now be done if needed. Once the desired position of base level is achieved, turn stake fins facing down and hammer stakes into ground see (Note: Do not fasten cap unless level is finished). Do not hammer stake in too deep.     Step 4: Laying The Frame
diagram 3diagram 4
If a tiered (multi-level) bed is desired, slide a second stake into all of the exposed tops of the in-ground level 1 stakes and put the level 2 Composite Timbers in place until level two is completed. See (Note: You can continue stacking additional levels until reaching your desired height).Step 5: Stack Your Raised Vegetable Garden
diagram 5 & 6
To finish the appearance of each joint and to secure the brackets over the stake, push or tap the supplied caps into the tops of the stakes until they snap in place. See .Step 6: Finish The Frame
diagram 7
Choose and order the right soil mixture for your desired plants. Our can help you choose the right soil mixture. Generally speaking, youl need 1 yard of soil to fill 50 Square Feet to a depth of 6 inchesStep 7: Fill with Soil
Know And Grow Guide
Your new Frame It All raised vegetable garden is ready to be plantedStep 8: Enjoy!