the words of John F. Kennedy
"A rising tide raises all ships"
Working towards raising the tide of the DJ industry, improving its reputation and making life and profits better for all of us.
The purpose of this organization:
.1. To unite professional mobile disc jockey members into a non-profit association in order to educate, enhance and promote the individual members
2.To educate the consumer of the standards for membership in the N.Y.S.D.J.A. and aid in the selection of an accredited N.Y.S.D.J.A. member.
N.Y.S.D.J.A. Objectives
Insure the highest quality entertainment in the New York State area.
Establish a network of benefits to help members save money.
To aid members in the promotion of all aspects of their individual companies.
Help members establish or maintain their status as professionals in their fields.
To preserve the integrity of the professional disc jockey industry.
Membership Requirements
Formalwear must be worn to all formal events unless otherwise requested by client.
All equipment must be of a professional series. No consumer products with the exception of CD player(s).
All equipment must be in rack mounted road cases.
Each member is accredited individually and does not reflect on any  independent agency.
All members must abide by the code of ethics of the N.Y.S.D.J.A.
All members must use written formal agreement except for last minute bookings when time does not permit. In which case, a verbal confirmation is acceptable.
All members are urged, as a matter of professional business practices, to carry a liability insurance policy.
Code of Ethics
DJ must wear formalwear to all weddings, anniversary parties, and corporate functions unless otherwise requested by client.
Equipment shall be maintained in a clean, esthetically pleasing manner.
Drugs and alcohol are not permitted under any circumstances while performing, setting up or breaking down.
DJ shall provide an opportunity for a consultation service, to all brides and grooms within a reasonable period of time before the wedding date.
DJ must be set up, and prepared to play music, at least 10 minutes prior to scheduled time.
DJ must cooperate with all service people incorporated with the event (photographer, videographer, wedding consultant, venue, etc.).
DJ must introduce him/herself to banquet manager in charge of reception in order to coordinate day's events prior to bride and groom's arrival.
DJ must return telephone calls to clients within 24 hours of the original call, before and after contract is signed.
Volume during cocktail and dinner hour shall be at a reasonable level.
Profanity is strictly prohibited, on or off the microphone.
DJ shall, at all times, maintain a professional, positive, and friendly attitude throughout the performance, regardless of any occurrences.
For DJs