: : Mothers Day Quotations Mothers Day 2009 Mothers Day Quotes
MOTHER'S DAY QUOTES
Mother is the person who always influences each and every aspect of our lives. Most of the time our actions reflect what we have learnt from our mothers. Certainly no one on this earth can repay the debt of mother. Our mothers always teach us good things and inspire us to perform our best on the stage of life. It is true that a woman does not become a mother just by giving birth to a child but it is the very feeling and features of motherhood, which enable a woman to be called a mother. In every part of the world people have tried in their own way to honor mother and motherhood by expressing their views through words. Here is a good compilation of some intense, heartfelt, humorous, and funny Mother's Day Quotes, which are about moms. "God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers." "All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to my angel Mother." "What is home without a mother?" "On Mother's Day a minister gave this perfect tribute: "My mother practices what I preach." "The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother." "Healthy families are our greatest national resource." "A mother is not a person to lean on, but a person to make leaning unnecessary." "He that wipes the child's nose, Kisses the mother's cheeks." "The babe first feeds upon the mother's bosom, but is always on her heart." "Call it a clan, call it a network, call it a tribe, and call it a family. Whatever you call it, whoever you are, you need one." "A light-heel'd mother makes a heavy-heel'd daughter." "That best academy, a mother's knee." "The future destiny of the child is always the work of the mother." "Youth fades; love droops; the leaves of friendship fall; A mother's secret love outlives them all." "The holiest thing alive." "Creating a warm, caring, supportive, encouraging environment is probably the most important thing you can do for your family." "The commonest fallacy among women is that simply having children makes one a mother - which is as absurd as believing that having a piano makes one a musician." "Mother is the name for God in the lips and hearts of children." "For the hands that rock the cradle, Is the hand that rules the world." "Mama exhorted her children at every opportunity to 'jump at de sun.' We might not land on the sun, but at least we would get off the ground."
~ Anonymous