Comments:
Diagnosis:
is one of the deadliest diseases known to man; the average life span of an inflicted person from the time of diagnosis until death is less than 24 months. It’s a disease that strikes approximately 3,000 United States citizens each and every year; hard working people who have labored for a lifetime to provide for their families, doing the work that keeps this country running and a great place to live. They worked in factories, at shipyards, in mines, for the US military, as engineers, as pipefitters, as steel workers, as auto mechanics, and in so many other professions. They came home to their loved ones exhausted and covered in dirt and dust; tired, but content that they had a job and were providing for their family. Content that they were putting food on the table and a house over their loved one’s heads. Content that they were working to make a better life for their families in this generation and the next...Mesothelioma
But what they didn’t know was that while they were working so hard, they were not only slowly killing themselves, but those that they were working so hard to help; their family, their loved ones.
is a disease that is almost 100% preventable; the only known cause is via exposure to the deadly mineral . It comes from inhaling the particles of dust as the degrades; eating away at the lining of your lungs and developing into a deadly cancer. Dust that was inhaled in clouds of white powder, dust that was carried home on the clothes of the men who built this country, dust that was cleaned from the clothes by the wives and children who supported their sole provider at home, dust that was packed around the heating systems in houses and offices and schools, dust that carried a deadly price; and dust made a fortune in blood money for the companies that produced it.MesotheliomaAsbestosasbestos
Unfortunately, the effects of on the human body were known to be deadly for years by the companies who employed the ‘greatest generation’ and made hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars off of their backs. But instead of taking simple steps to alleviate the problem and save the lives of thousands of their workers, they choose to do nothing and continue to . Many even went so far as to hide the truth from their workers and their families. And because the normal latency period for (The time from exposure until the patient falls ill) is 20 to 30 years, many got away with this for years. We are only now beginning to see the full effects of the disease, and feel the terrible outcry of the people against those who put profits before human lives to a degree that is simply unfathomable.asbestosmake a “healthy” profit with a “deadly” productMesothelioma
MesoLink.org is a site created to provide you with up to date information on the deadly disease . We strive to provide the most complete overview of the disease and all aspects of it. This includes general information on the disease, breaking news on the search for a cure and perspective legislation designed to limit you as well as all other news on the subject, links to other sites and online resources that can provide important and in-depth Mesothelioma and cancer related information, and a legal guide to help you with the complex legal issues involved with .MesotheliomaMesothelioma
Air test results shut down an Iowa elementary school this week amid concerns of asbestos. With only three weeks left in the school year, the superintendent is looking for a place for the 145 students. Asbestos Closes Iowa School
June 5th, 2008
Read More >>
A park in California has had almost half its 75,000 acres shut to the public after high levels of naturally occurring asbestos was found. The asbestos is in the soil at the park, and can become airbor Natural Asbestos Causes Health Concern
June 4th, 2008
Read More >>
Copyright © 2007 MesoLink.Org. Your Link To . All Rights Reserved
Sponsored by The Peterson Firm, with offices at 20 N. Orange Ave. Suite 400, Orlando, FL 32801. Licensed to practice in Florida. Disclaimer Mesothelioma Information