Bank Annuity Sales Fraud Insurance Bad Faith Insurance Fraud Title-Insurance Fraud Unumprovident / Denial of Benefits
Other Types of Claims
Asbestos/Mesothelioma Lead Paint Exposure Negligent Security Product Recall Information Social Security Claims Toxic Molds Medical Malpractice Human Tissue Recall Tissue Transplant Recall
Treadmill Recall Attorneys
At Nadrich & Cohen, our lawyers aggressively represent defective product and product liability cases nationwide. If you or a loved one has been seriously injured as the result of the Pro Form R-930 Space Saver Rider, or any other Pro Form treadmill, you may be entitled to monetary compensation for your injuries. We believe any Pro Form Treadmill is defective. Our accomplished firm will help you at no cost; we charge a contingency fee only. This means we charge a fee only if we obtain a recovery for you. If we do not obtain a recovery for you - you owe us nothing. Please call us at (800) 718-4658 or email your inquiry by . clicking here
As the amount of households with in-home exercise equipment increases, so do the number of equipment related injuries each year. In fact, there are approximately 8,700 reported cases of children suffering from exercise equipment related injuries annually, in addition to the countless adult related injuries which occur.
The Pro Form Treadmills, manufactured by Icon Health & Fitness Inc., have caused numerous reported injuries. Approximately 78,000 of the exercise machines were recalled after more than a dozen consumers reported that they suffered from head, neck and back injuries resulting from a defect in the machine. Some other treadmill related injuries which may occur to people of all ages include:
Injuries to the upper extremities (arm, hand, fingers)
Cuts and lacerations
Bone fractures
Injuries to the lower extremities (leg, foot, toes)
If you own an Icon treadmill or a Pro Form model and it caused severe physical injuries, please contact us immediately.
Listed below are some Pro Form treadmills which may place the user at risk for severe physical injuries:
ProForm CrossTrainer VX Treadmill
ProForm CrossWalk Performance X Treadmill
ProForm CX18i Treadmill
ProForm CrossWalk Performance LXs Treadmill
ProForm Perspective 1.0 LX Treadmill
ProForm 1000 S Treadmill