 
The Diggerland JCB Stunt Team
The Diggerland JCB Stunt Team, more commonly known as the "Dancing Diggers" performs across the length and breadth of the country and is recognised as one of the top arena attractions available. The team has appeared on television many times, showcasing the amazing abilities of the machine operators as they push their diggers to the absolute maximum of their capabilities.
The team which comprises of 5 giant JCB diggers and one mini Bobcat loader is headed up by The Landshuttle. This is a highly modified JCB with considerably more power than a standard JCB and consequently it can achieve a much faster speed. The Landshuttle is the fastest JCB on the road and holds the World Record for the fastest time driven from John O'Groats to Land's End in a total time of 22 hours, 10 minutes and 30 seconds.
The other four JCB's in the team weigh 8.5 tonnes and cost in excess of £48,000 each, so you will see in excess of a quarter of a million pounds worth of equipment performing in the arena.
The Stunt Team operators have been handpicked from the large number of skilled JCB operators who work for the largest digger hire company in Europe, H.E. Services. These top drivers perform dare devil stunts and formation digger dancing, intermingled with lots of comedy. During a 30 minute performance accompanied by music they push the machines and themselves to the limit, thrilling audiences of all ages throughout the UK and overseas.
The stunts performed are not only very difficult, but are also very dangerous, and must, under no circumstances be attempted by anyone in the audience!
The team can perform on most ground surfaces and usually no damage will be sustained. The minimum display area required for the team to perform should be at least 50m x 50m surrounded by either crash barriers, chestnut fencing or other firm surround, or two sets of ropes and pins with at least a one metre gap between each set, creating a safety corridor. Also needed is an area with a minimum size of 15m x 50m for parking the team.
Whilst on location the team provides a static display for the public which is very popular. Public Liability Insurance is held to the value of £5 million, whilst the machines are under the control of the team members.
If you wish to have the Dancing Diggers perform at your event please call Linda Bareham on           0871 22 70707 or e-mail stuntteam@heservices.co.uk
H.E. SERVICES (PLANT HIRE) LIMITED.