Browse > / , , , , / ZIMBABWE: Now a ‘Factory for Poverty’ Home Economy Featured Human Rights Poverty Zimbabwe
ZIMBABWE: Now a ‘Factory for Poverty’
by   Filed under , , , ,January 17, 2009 editors
Global Politics Online Journal / IPS
Ephraim Nsingo
HARARE, Jan 17 (IPS) - Over 75 percent of the people in crisis-riddled Zimbabwe are living in desperate poverty, with children bearing the brunt. And with rival parties still wrangling over implementation of a power-sharing agreement signed four months ago, things are likely to get worse before they improve.
A report released by Save the Children (SCF) found that 10 out of the 13 million people still in Zimbabwe live in abject poverty, struggling to access food and other essentials. A local alliance of non-governmental organisations said the figures could be higher than that.
Many children are going without education - around 75 percent of state schools are not functioning properly because the majority of state teachers are not working as they are not paid enough to survive and have to look for or work for food. Many poor families are being forced to send their children out to find work or wild foods and simply can no longer afford to send them to school, adds the report. The Advocacy and Public Policy Manager of the National Association of Non-Governmental Organisations (NANGO), Fambai Ngirande, said the reality on the ground is actually way beyond those figures and the situation is worsening .
A largely man-made, preventable and grossly unnecessary situation, the result of years of failed policies and the self-seeking actions of the ruling political elites whose corrupt and undemocratic tendencies have worsened the situation by heightening the levels of inequality to alarming levels.
Ngirande said hunger was now forcing many people to resort to desperate measures like prostitution and child labour, while others were now eating poisonous roots and wild fruits.
Commuter fares in urban areas now change twice a day, forcing most workers to camp at their workplace during the week and go home only on weekends. Skilled professionals are also quitting their in droves to take up menial jobs.
Although middle class professionals like nurses and teachers have been left unable to subsist because of the crisis, Ngirande said it is vulnerable groups such as the elderly, People Living with HIV/AIDS, orphaned children, the disabled and others that have been hardest hit .
The Progressive Teachers’ Union of Zimbabwe (PTUZ) secretary general, Raymond Majongwe said the state of poverty among teachers was a scandal.
If you want, I can take you to Cheziya bus terminus in Gokwe, and show you a fomer headmaster who is now a rank marshall at the terminus, said Majongwe, referring to a sprawling agricultural town in the Midlands Province.
He accused the government of deliberately ignoring the plight of teachers, who have repeatedly been labelled as opposition supporters.
It is so embarrassing the authorities continue to take this business-as-usual approach when the national fabric continues to decay. Teachers’ salaries have plummeted to several points below the poverty datum line.
Where on earth have you seen a teacher who cannot afford to buy a packet of milk from his salary? Go into any classroom right now, you will find a teacher selling sweets and other small foodstuffs in order to survive, that’s not proper.
Ngirande says the country is paying a high cost in development terms.
The desperate competition for scarce resources that has been precipitated by this poverty and inequality is breeding grounds for civil strife and social unrest especially given the present politically volatile situation.
Because while the poor continue to sink deeper into poverty, a small section of Zimbabwe’s elite are enjoying every moment in Zimbabwe. They access foreign currency at official exchange rates from the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for a song, which they then use for mostly illegal deals like buying and reselling cars, and dealing in gold and diamonds. The well-connected are able to import vehicles duty-free, and resell them at high prices in foreign currency.
In Harare this elite is not difficult to identify. They drive the latest fancy cars, dine at expensive restaurants such as KwaMambo in Avondale, and frequent expensive clubs like Room 10 in plush Borrowdale Brooke, where they spend hundreds of U.S. dollars on an evening’s entertainment.
But with a third of Zimbabwean children undernourished, the failure of water and sewage infrastructure triggering a cholera epidemic that has already claimed 2,200 lives, and hyperinflation officially acknowledged to be at 243 million percent - in reality much, much higher - humanitarian workers are describing Zimbabwe as one of the world’s most active factories of poverty .
Save the Children says it has scaled up its work in the areas of education, health, livelihoods, protection and food provision.
Terna Gyuse adds from Cape Town: Movement for Democratic Change leader (MDC) Morgan Tsvangirai returned to Zimbabwe on Jan. 17, after more than two months spent in neighbouring South Africa and Botswana. He is expected to meet with Zimbabwe African National Union- Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) leader Robert Mugabe to restart discussions on a power-sharing deal.
Tsvangirai fell just short of outright victory in the first-round and withdrew from a run-off election in the face of brutal violence by ZANU. An agreement on sharing power was reached, but implementation stalled over the allocation of key ministries and the balance of power between the two principal parties.
The MDC will not be bulldozed into an agreement which does not meet the aspirations of the people of Zimbabwe, Tsvangirai said on his return to Harare.
All rights reserved, IPS  Inter Press Service, 2008.
South Africa: Refugees from Zimbabwe Image ID: 2008121615 Asylum seekers at the show grounds in Musina, December 2008 Taurai Maduna/IRIN
Tags: